 As the Presidential Initiative on Continuous Audit (PICA) and Federal Ministry of Finance begin the payment of N 22.3 billion to ex- workers and pensioners of liquidated national carrier –  Nigeria Airways Limited this week, President Muhammadu Buhari is beaming the searchlight on those that ruined the carrier. The searchlight on the rested national carrier by Buhari it was also learnt involved recovery of huge sums of money including billions of naira and millions of dollars from individuals, organizations and agencies that mismanaged the airline. Besides, recovery of misapplied funds, the President , it was also learnt is putting efforts in place through the relevant agencies of government to initiate prosecution against indicted individuals, organizations and agencies. The Justice Obiora Nwazota , who served as chairman of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry  submitted its white paper to government. The Judicial Commission for the investigation of Airways worked for 12 months and submitted its report to government on May 8, 2002. It submitted the draft of the white paper on November 18, 2002. Other members of the Judicial Commission were : Mrs Catherine Okon ; Secretaty ; Chief Chimezie Ikeazor ( SAN); Chief Yemi Adefulu; Dr Mfon Amana; Alhaji Mika Anache and Chief Eni Okoi. Sources close to the liquidated carrier said Buhari is constituting a team to initiate a probe into how the fortunes of the rested airline dwindled before it closed shops. In particular, the President it was learnt intends to look at the white paper on the Report of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry for the investigation of the management of Nigeria Airways Limited between 1983 -1999. The white paper indicted some high profile Individuals and organizations/ agencies  from whom various sums running into billions of naira. The panel was mandated to the financial position and financial management of Airways to examine all books of account and records to ascertain their compliance with appropriate regulations. The panel was to investigate the application of funds, including budgetary allocations, special grants , loans for specific projects and proceeds from the sale of its product and services as well as verify , evaluate, ascertain the authentic level of indebtedness between 1983 and 1999. Confirming the development, Chairman of Aviation Union Grand Alliance (AUGA) and Chairman of Ex – Airways Workers , Comrade Lookman Animashaun said though the workers and pensioners are excited over the approval for payment of their severance benefits, they want Buhari to ask questions on how the airline was ruined . He said the President should go beyond asking questions but insist on the implementation of the recommendations in the White Paper released by the Justice Obiora Nwazota Judicial Commission of Inquiry . Animashaun said looking into the recommendations of the White Paper could not be more apt than now, when the Justice Nwazota is still alive to give credence to the contents of the document. He said ex- Airways workers would want Buhari to push for the prosecution of politically exposed persons who were indicted in the White Paper , but straddle across the political landscape untouched. Animashaun said “Though we thank President Muhammadu Buhari for approving the release of our severance benefits, but we learnt the president has started asking questions on what led to the collapse of the firmer national carrier . “Beyond asking questions, Buhari must ensure government goes back to the white paper and institute a commission of inquiry , more so that Justice Obiora Nwazota is still alive. “Every recommendation in the white paper should be implemented to the letter and the names of persons inducted in the report should be prosecuted. It is only when government does this that the wounds inflicted on the psyche of former workers of the rested national carrier would heal .” Meanwhile, not less than four commercial banks have besieged the precincts of the Skypower Catering limited  to scout for customers as verification and payment of severance benefits to ex – Airways workers and pensioners kicked off in the Lagos region at the weekend. The sleepy premises of Skypower Catering Limited, the only surviving subsidiary of the rested national carrier came alive with hundreds of ex- workers and pensioners thronging the venue to perfect documentation for their payment which will run between October 15, 2018 and October 22, 2018. Officials of Guarantee Trust Bank (GTB) , First Bank, FCMB and Sterling Bank have erected canopies at the venue to scout for customers willing to deposit or transfer their monies in their banks. Besides, officials of the PICA and other groups were on ground to educate the ex- workers and pensioners on the requirements and modalities of payment. It was learnt that next of kins of beneficiaries that have died after the initial payment of severance benefits were also on ground to acquaint themselves of the requirements and procedure for payment. A source hinted that they were requested to supply the staff number of the late beneficiary; the pensioner number; letter of attorney as well as a letter of identification. Other requirements, a source hinted should include a death certificate and obituary publication in a newspaper announcing the death and burial programme of the late beneficiary. An official who declined to give his name said :” Our mandate as representative of government on ground is to ensure that only those entitled to get the severance benefits are paid. The whole essence is to ensure that are not deprived of their money , provided they abide by the procedures . ” All we have done so far is to ensure we verify the names on the list and go ahead to pay them their entitlements in the next two weeks.” A source hinted that the last batch of the severance benefits will be processed for payment before the next six months .