Emir of Kano Muhammad Sanusi II has called on the three tiers of government to make budgetary provision for the maintenance of grazing reserves and stock routes. This, the emir said, will eliminate the farmers-herders clashes and ensure peace. He spoke yesterday at the National Summit on Conflict Resolution Organised by The Nation and Televison Continental (TVC). The Emir, who was represented by Professor Isa Hashim, the Jarman Kano, said: “The three levels of government should provide enough funds through our budgets for the maintenance of our stock. Because this is what will help us to have an enduring peace in our country. The entire nation needs peace.” Hashim noted that there is a problem and “we must seek for a way to resolve it”. Adding his voice to this, Mr. Kola Kuku of DfID highlighted the fact that while population growth and climate change are affecting production, the country still has a static production system, which he advised should be improved. He also stressed that efforts must be made to support the livestock sector just as other sectors are being assisted. His words: “The price of cattle is higher in Nigeria that any other African country. That is the reason why cattle are imported from Sudan to the east, west and moving towards Nigeria and large part of it gets to the South and Lagos. “Because of that it is difficult to stock of animals we have in this country. Our climate change is affecting production. Production system has remained static. And given that is the fact that we need to change that production system. We should put money into the business of farm grazing. The present grazing reserve, as it is now, cannot sustain any reasonable production. Access to production resources, land, water and pasture is not there. In all these years we have failed to support the livestock sector.” The CEO of TV Continental, Mr. Andrew Hallon, who drew on the experiences of his home country, Ireland, spoke on the need to set out a pathway to resolving the farmers-herders conflicts. He pointed out the importance of communication, respect for the points of view of others, a common desire for peace, a business-oriented approach to seeking solutions and the unlearning of harmful stereotypes. Also, Col. Ahmed Zubair (retd.) former Director of Research of the Nigeria Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC), pointed to the under-resourcing of the security agencies as a major drawback to the discharge of their role in conflict resolution. Dr. Saleh Umale of the Kaduna State Peace Commission described the farmers-herders crisis as a crisis long foretold. He identified the improvement of the livelihood of Nigeria’s rural communities as key to the search for peace. He stressed: “We need to embrace peace. We are facing crisis in the land and we have allowed our minds to be polluted in different communities. We do not have Fulani land like others. We need to support our rural communities. We have to develop in line with other societies. “The Nigerian pastoral sector is in crisis. Nigerians in rural areas, especially in the northern part of the country are the ones facing the crisis. “The situation has gotten worse. This issue has nothing to do with lack of grass production. This condition has led to breakdown of community relationship. The structure of community development has collapsed. The approach to deal with the situation is different.” The representative of the Inspector-General of Police, Deputy Inspector-General (DIG) -in- charge of Operations, Habila Joshack, spoke of the need to do away with radicalism, stressing that solution to the crisis must be localised. He assured the country that the police will continue to ensure peace and orderliness. Said the office: “The solution to these problems must be localised. We do not need people that are not directly affected to speak. Let us come together and ensure peace. The police will always ensure that there is peace and orderliness in the country, especially the northern part of the country. We should do away with radicalisation. People must believe those in power to give them information that will turn things around for good. “The IG has given an order that anyone seen with arms going about trying to take anyone’s life will be dealt with. We must emphasise positivity anywhere we go even after this conference.” In his remark, Joseph Lengman, Director General, Plateau Peace Building Agency warned on the need to get it right in handling the farmer-herder crisis. In his view, there is no simple solution to the crisis. “If we keep getting it wrong on how to proffer solution to this crisis, we may not be heading for the right direction. We need analyses on the nature of the actors. And until we notify that I think we will still be in the woods. There is no simple solution to this crisis. We just have to jig a way out of it, we have to work hard. Like I said yesterday, we all have to be emotional about it. We need to focus on how to transform from this situation to a better one. We need mature understanding. Our problem is that we hardly agree on issues discussed in this country. We must be proactive.” He went on: “There are people who are making money out of this crisis. They do not want the crisis to be resolved. Our country needs peace. We cannot keep fighting and pray for development.” A participant, Alhaji Isa Umaru proffered a practical solution, saying a group made up of both farmers and herders, should be set up. The group, according to him, will be working on peace and harmonious living among the warring groups.