The Premier Internet Service Provider, said It introduces the new Blue Freedom MiFi with 25GB free data for N16,000 to improve internet service experience on independence day. According to the service provider the entry of the Blue Freedom MiFi is premised on the celebration of Nigeria’s 58th independence anniversary just as it aims to deepen internet penetration in the country. Blue Freedom MiFi offers consumers the opportunity to enjoy seamless internet connectivity for business, personal and allied purposes, the internet operator said. When checked the new MiFi can connect up to 10 users at a time – help connecting several devices or users at a time It has child lock facility as users can block unwanted websites which is a very important feature for families where children are exposed to internet. Mike Ogor, Head of Marketing, who spoke on the brand aspiration said, “The Blue Freedom MiFi is uniquely beautiful, pocket-friendly and trendy, fitting into everyday life of consumers who appreciates elegance and quality services. “The battery life can stay up to 8 hours without power source. It has a front display screen that shows your data usage and the balance. It is very easy to carry in your bag or pocket. “In a nutshell, the Blue Freedom MiFi upgrades the customer to the next level of internet connection and makes him stay ahead of others in style while enjoying additional benefit of fast, reliable and value-for-money internet connectivity. The cost of the Blue Freedom MiFi is N16, 000 only with free 25GB data and free night browsing,” he said. Spectranet Limited was the first Internet Service Provider (ISP) to launch 4G LTE internet service in Nigeria. The brand is known for providing an affordable, faster and more reliable internet broadband to Nigerian homes and offices. Its internet service is currently available across Lagos, Abuja, Ibadan and Port Harcourt. Its state of the art network ensures high speed internet connectivity for the customers. Spectranet 4G LTE is a recipient of multiple awards for Best 4G LTE Internet Service Provider in Nigeria in 2016, 2017 and 2018.