Head of Crime Desk of The Nation on Saturday, Kunle Akinrinade, was among the 23 graduands of Caleb University in Imota, Lagos State, who bagged a First Class degree. Akinrinade and other 476 graduands received their certificates at the 8th convocation of the university, held last Friday. The Overall Best Graduating Student, Miss Anthonia Christabel Nya, of the Department of Computer Science, finished with 4.81 Cumulative Grade Point Average(CGPA). In her valedictory speech, the 23-year-old Anthonia, who is an orphan, praised God for the feat, appreciating the university management, lecturers and guardians for supporting her throughout her studies. Akinrinade, a multiple award-winning journalist, had his Higher National Diploma (HND) in Mass Communication from the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) in Ikorodu. He was admitted into the university’s Mass Communication Department in 2015/2016 session and finished with 4.67 CGPA. The senior correspondent said he returned to school with a goal to improve his academic credentials in response to unnecessary discrimination against polytechnic graduates. The high point of the event was the conferment of honourary doctorate degrees on an erudite scholar, Prof Toyin Falola of the University of Texas and businessman, Dr Goodie Ibru. At the convocation with the theme: The release of Amethyst Graduating Class of 2018, the Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Ayandiji Aina, disclosed that the number of First Class graduates was an improvement from the figure recorded last year. He said: “Last year, we produced 17 First Class graduates. But this year, we are graduating 23 First Class students and this clearly shows an improvement in our record of performance. The graduating class also comprises 199 Second Class (Upper Division), 148 Second Class (Lower Division), 28 Third Class and 79 post-graduate students, out of which eight bagged distinction.” Aina used the occasion to disclose that the National Universities Commission (NUC) approved the school’s request to start doctoral programme in architecture and other post-graduate programmes. In his speech, the Pro-chancellor and chairman of Governing Council, Prof Fola Tayo, lamented the rising immorality and decadence in the country, blaming the problem on loss of values. He said: “Nigeria is not lucky to have had leaders that would make it upright in morality and good character. People aspiring to lead our country are known to morally bankrupt and despicable in character. Most of them are wanted for terrible crimes, including illicit financial and drug dealings, in the United Kingdom and the United States.” Chairman, Board of Trustees (BOT) of the institution,  Prof Peter Okebukola hailed the management for making efforts at setting global best practice in quality education and its commencement of postgraduate studies and first doctorate programme. Okebukola said: “We appreciate the NUC for providing the enabling environment for Caleb University to creating the needed impact in the education of the country, while joining other leading universities to raise the bar of excellence.” 