Recent footage of Nnamdi Kanu hitting the wailing wall in Israel has left many wondering if the leader of the banned separatist group Independent Peoples of Biafra or IPOB is contemplating a return to Nigeria to rally what remains of his group. Kanu disappeared in September last year when IPOB members clashed with soldiers in Abia State in the days of Operation Python Dance, a military exercise that claimed many lives, mostly members of the pro-Biafra group. Since the clash, the group has been largely quiet, and families of those killed have been privately dealing with their losses. Now the sighting of Kanu has triggered fear in the hearts of people, especially those who do not want any more trouble. Johncollins Osuji’s in Ihitte Afara in Mbaitoli Council Area of Imo State is one such family. Life became a nightmare for them after the army declared their son wanted for his role in the pro-Biafra protest of last year. They said they are hounded by security operatives, especially soldiers who storm their home in search of the IPOB chief. Mrs. Theresa Osuji said, “My son was a trader at Aba market and was doing fairly well when he joined IPOB and suddenly returned from Aba where he was doing business and started gathering other youths to protest against the government. We tried to stop him but he could not listen. “One night after soldiers raided the home of Nnamdi Kanu, we were already sleeping when soldiers broke into our home and demanded to see our son but fortunately he did not sleep at home. That was how he escaped and ran to Lagos and now he is trying to start his business again. But since we heard that Kanu wants to come back to Nigeria to continue the agitation, we have been gripped by fear and the whole family is praying that he does not leave his business again to join him.” For the family of Anyaduba in Onitsha South Local Government Area, the story was quite tragic. Two members of the family, Chinonso and Simeon Anyaduba, were killed during the IPOB protest in Onitsha, when they allegedly attacked soldiers at a checkpoint in an attempt to grab their guns. Chief Offor Anyaduba, who spoke to The Nation, said, “My family has paid a steep price for the Biafra agitation. I lost two of my children on the same day; they were shot like dogs by soldiers during the Nnamdi Kanu protest. I warned them against belonging to that group (IPOB) but they could not listen. I know that our youths were misguided by the likes of Kanu and Ralph Uwazuruike who are using them to make their money and fame with phoney promises. “Until I die, I will never forget that fateful day that I had to bury two of my children; my wife has never been the same again, she has been in and out of hospital since then. My advice is that our youths should throw away this Biafra agitation and face their business. I fought during the civil war and I won’t want a repeat of that experience”. Speaking further, he said, “We were relieved when Kanu disappeared and the whole wahala was dying down but we don’t know what will happen with this his sudden reappearance. But I urge our people to be law-abiding, especially our youths and women”. Narrating the ordeal of some of the IPOB women, who were recently arrested and arraigned in court for protesting naked in Owerri, the Imo State capital, to demand the whereabouts of Kanu, Chief Martins Ibecheodo said the IPOB agitation did more harm to the Igbo than good. He said, “Kanu and his violent agitations became a serious threat for us; he was never open to dialogue, he does not have regard for any Igbo leader no matter how highly placed. The economy of the Southeast was going down, investors were leaving the zone in droves for fear of their investments. There was uncertainty in the Southeast and nobody was safe anymore, especially those that do not believe in the Biafra struggle. “You can imagine the reproach the arrest and arraignment of Igbo women, who left their homes and businesses, some of them nursing mothers and octogenarians to protest half naked on the streets for an unrealisable course which they don’t even understand. They were being used for selfish interests. “We heaved a sigh of relief [during Kanu’s absence] when he resurfaced again. There is growing tension now, people are afraid of what is going to happen next. We just pray that he stays back and allow peace to reign”. A trader in Onitsha market, who didn’t want his name in print, told The Nation, “We went through hell during the Kanu era, we were forced to close our shops and pay huge amounts of money to IPOB members who came to collect illegal levies in the market for the prosecution of the Biafra struggle. You dare not refuse them otherwise you will be labeled a traitor and punished severely or killed. “We were very happy and relieved when he ran away from the country, we celebrated it in the markets. We thought it was all over and we have been free but we are afraid now. We also went through painful ordeal in the hands of soldiers who see every Igbo youth as IPOB member, especially during the Operation Python Dance. All these were a result of Kanu and his IPOB agitation”. In Aba, the commercial heart of Abia State, the Okemmiris cannot forget 2017 in a hurry. Their son, Emele Uduma Okemmiri died in the IPOB clash with the military. Emele was one of the best suit makers in Enyimba City with a great vision of taking his business to the global scene. Such was his talent that his cuts were reportedly better than those of famous international designers. The elder brother of the deceased, Godwin, told our reporter that his brother died when a stray bullet from shots fired by soldiers deployed to Aba. A colleague of his described Emele’s death as pathetic. “Why this whole thing pain us is that, if he was an IPOB member, we can say he was killed because of what he believed in. And the evidence would have been seen even at the spot where he was killed. He never had on him any bangle or materials belonging to IPOB. He was never a member of IPOB. He came to his shop as usual to do his business, he heard a gunshot and came out to ascertain what was happening and the next thing, he was shot right there at his business area. That was a terrible way for a young and industrious man to end up” A man, who lost two children, defended them and the cause for which they died. “My kids were above 20,” he said. “They told me that since I fought the war and could not win, that they were going to join Nnamdi Kanu to make it happen. They said it was a gift that they want to give me before they die or I die. Physically, Biafra hasn’t come. But spiritually, it is here. We are only waiting for the manifestation of the prophecy of God about Biafra.” The IPOB leader’s first public speech since he escaped from his country home in Abia has reignited the cult-like passion in the youths, which was almost dying down. Parents are once more becoming apprehensive over their children. Another threat visited on the zone by the IPOB, which was diluted by Kanu’s disappearance, was the infamous election boycott campaign. In his absence, most of the misguided youths had seen the error in most of what they were coerced to believe by the IPOB leader and were beginning to reintegrate in the society. Politicians including governors were relieved after Kanu disappeared from the scene, but his sudden return has revived the fears of the Igbo elites who were more or less seen as saboteurs by IPOB members. Today IPOB offices and cells across the Southeast, which were abandoned, are coming to life. Women and youths who had lost faith in the Biafra struggle have been energised by Kanu’s speech monitored on Radio Biafra. People, who were hitherto bold to condemn IPOB activities, have all fallen back into line over fear of being labeled traitors. The anxiety has been dismissed by the leader of the Movement for the Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) Chief Ralph Uwazuruike. He said, “Nnamdi Kanu out of ignorance called for boycott of Anambra election last year and the election held, now that he is calling for another boycott, how does he want to achieve that? A lot of his members were killed last year and he left them and ran away, a real freedom fighter does not fear for death rather he donates his life for the struggle. He should be disregarded because all his activities from his arrest, to his release and finally his travel to Israel were stage-managed, so he is fake.” 