Remember Prince Aderopo in Kunle Afolayan’s October 1? That role interpreter has been engaged in more movie jobs after his feature film debut. In this interview with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI, he speaks about his new career and the movie industry in general. YOU started off with short films, tell us about your experience when you got your major role in a feature film First of all, I have a bigger responsibility to people who haven’t seen my work but believe I can do something that haven’t been proven. So there is the Issue of “I have to prove this thing and I have to do the very best that I can. There was a pleasure of meeting many practitioners in the art and some of them I was able to learn directly from, like Collin Reece who is one of the foreign actors that was brought in for the movie and he really took time in helping me get into the character of “Prince Aderopo” and the kind of framework I should carry with me on different projects as an actor. I got to work with a picky and exacting director who is so much about details. I felt a weight on me but it was a weight I felt I could lift. Working with notable actors in ‘October 1’, what impact did the people on the set have on your delivery and your career at large? Being with experienced practitioners helped me focus on skill and not just talent. It helped me know what I should practice on, what my weaknesses and strengths were. When you got the script as a lead character, what was your reaction? I was excited, happy, energised. There are many words to describe the things I felt that don’t easily come to mind. But I have to say that it was one of those experiences that changed the trajectory of your life. It was a new journey for me at the time and for me to have started seeing success within the first year or two of doing a particular thing; it’s almost as if the universe was saying, “We’ve been waiting for you, what took you so long?” It was all just encouraging, inspiring and uplifting. Did the role have any negative comment or impact on you from fans? Definitely there were negative comments. There were people who actually took it very seriously and they do not like me based on that role I played. There are people that literally wrote comments about how I must be an evil person in real life for me to have done so well with that character. Some other people criticised me for my relationships and alliances. Some people also felt I could have played the role better. I would not let this aforementioned people overshadow the people that commended me for the work I did, the nominations and awards that I got for playing that character and for the way it introduced me to the industry because after that project, I was out of the scene for more than a year and yet was still able to get back and get good jobs based on the mileage October1 got me. Why have you not been seen in every movie, as some believe that is how to measure stardom? They might actually be right about that. In this economy it’s actually a much better move to do as much work as possible because then you would earn the most money but it can’t be all about money. I have a plan for the kind of work that I want to do and what doesn’t fit the plan, won’t work for me. Actors are here to represent the society but I alone as an actor can only represent a cross section of personalities from any environment. I can’t play everybody and therefore I can’t feature one very film. Presently, what is happening to your music career? My music career is kind of on hold because of the rush of acting jobs that I’ve been getting. It’s not as easy as it looks to combine the two but I know it can be done. Which do you think would have been more promising for you as an entertainer; acting or music? There is no one size fits all solution for everything, so I would not actually know until I’ve gone far charting the course for both. Tell us how you got cast for ‘October 1’ I’ve been in constant contact with Kunle Afolayan and discussing films and sending him different kinds of research that I found as regards films. And then one day, just out of the blue, Kunle called and asked that I come to his office. He said there was something he needed me to do and he was pretty sure I would get it done. But he wanted me to come for the audition so that I can prove to everybody else that I can do it. He also added that at the auditions he would not give me any preferential treatment. And so I went for the reading and then the audition where I gave my best and everyone loved my act. What excited me most was when the script writer’s aid I delivered it much better than he had imagined. So, after getting all that validation, it was easier for me to forge ahead. Aside movies, what other projects or businesses are you involved in? I’m heavily involved in real estate, managing a portfolio which I hope to grow with time. I also run a multimedia production company. The company offers general all-round creative solutions for branding and content development. Since your entry into Nollywood, what can you say has changed? I think we are moving towards a system that requires people to do their preproduction properly before embarking on a project. It also calls for actors to be more prepared before showing up to work as opposed to improvising on set. It is creating more opportunities for people to make money from films. The new video on demand platforms that are springing around in the country and it is providing a range of different audiences to be available to receive different kinds of contents as opposed to this comedy-driven market that we currently operate in. Who are the people you look up to and would love to work with (producers, directors and actors)? I look up to Mo Abudu, Tope Oshin, Kemi Adetiba, Kunle Afolayan. The actors I respect their works are OC Ukeje, Ibrahim Chattah, Gideon Okeke, Nino B and some new interesting faces like Ade Laoye, Kiki Omeli, Meg Otanwa, and also Genevieve Nnaji, because she’s charting a new course in this industry that is really impressive. Tell us, how has it been like living in Nigeria now, having lived abroad for a period of time? It’s hard to get used to the fact that the system is not fully functional and things don’t work properly the way they should. I praise Nigerians that we are still able to thrive in these conditions and we are still able to make our marks in the world regardless of the limitations of infrastructure and political leadership. I believe every Nigerian has to see themselves as leaders because if all of us are sitting around and waiting for one president to change the country, it would never change. The country is bad because of all of us and not only the leaders, and as such we all have so much to do to change the country. If you are given the chance, what would you love to change in Nollywood? I would like to increase the actor’s dedication to researching their characters and providing distinct difference for audiences to enjoy. I also would encourage producers to be more considerate to performers and be more aware of what it takes to deliver a quality product. I also would implore the directors not to give up on their visions and continue to believe and try to make the industry better. We all have a lot to prove and we ought to keep proving it to the world. Handsome and with a charming look, are there plans to get married soon? There are very strong plans to settle down soon but my relationship is not something I feel comfortable discussing in the public sphere, the same way another person’s relationship isn’t my business. So if I decide to flaunt my relationship, it’s my responsibility for it to be an example for others to emulate. Because I know there isn’t perfection anywhere, I would rather keep my relationship private and not be observed by other people. And how do you handle difficult or flirty female fans? I don’t let it get to my head because someone who loves you today may fall out of love with you tomorrow. Especially when they don’t know you well and what they like about you is the idea that they have of you being a public figure. I handle the attention with a pinch of salt but appreciate it with all my heart. I respond to all positive inquiries and comments that are handed to me and of course I ignore and reject trolls and nay sayers. Fans are important to me, even the flirtatious ones. What is your best moment in life? I would get back to you on that because the best is yet to come. When you are not working, how do you relax? I relax by playing sports, watching movies, writing music. In fact I believe my work never ends because what I do for money are still things I enjoy doing when I’m off the clock. So, creativity is life and everything I do. How far can you go when it comes to your appearance and preparation for a role in a movie? I would go as far as required as long as I’ve said yes to the script. I won’t hold back anything the director wants from me. I would go whatever length including weight, hair, whatever changes I have to make to fit into the character I’ve agreed to do because it’s my job as an actor. How do you make sure you remain fit and charming? I work out at least three to four times in a week. I have gym equipment where I live, so it’s not something I have to go too far for. It’s not just important for vanity, it’s important for life. For a successful career, it’s important that an actor takes proper care of his body, mind and soul. There are mental and spiritual exercises that I do but physical exercise is utmost. What movie projects are you working on now or starring in and coming to our viewing soon? King of Boys comes out on October 26th, and it’s a major project I worked on this year. Knock out Blessings is another project that I think would go very far. God’s Calling is another spiritual project that is slated to be a Christmas film, and interestingly I may or may not play Black Jesus. Truth, the series is a TV miniseries coming up and the producers are trying to get an international deal for it and may have a delayed release.