Massive investment in infrastructure is crucial to economic growth and development, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed has said. Mohammed noted that it was this realization that made the current administration to give priority to investment in critical infrastructure in the last three and half years. The minister spoke on Thursday in Ibadan at the 14th edition of the Special Town Hall meeting. The meeting which is also the second on infrastructure had as members of panel, Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transport, Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Housing, Power and Works and also Suleiman Adamu, Minister of Water Resources. The minister noted in his opening remark that investment in infrastructure is a fast route to development. He said, “This Administration, realizing that no nation develops without massive investment in infrastructure, has made such investment a priority, and it is paying off, as you will hear shortly from the Honourable Minister of Power, Works and Housing. “Whether in the area of job creation or stimulation of economic growth, investment in infrastructure is a fast route to development. You cannot talk about the developed Western nations without talking about their roads, power, ports and rail system, just to mention a few. This is because these nations have invested massively in infrastructure over the years, realizing that infrastructure spurs economic growth by enhancing productivity and efficiency. The same template has also been adopted by many other countries, including China, Japan and South Korea. We are in no doubt that the solid foundation that we are laying in the area of infrastructure will be a catalyst to the much-needed economic development in our dear country.” He therefore noted that the special town hall meeting which will go on till 2019 is to showcase the achievements of the Buhari administration. The essence, the minister said “is to provide a platform for the federal government to regularly give account of its stewardship to the people, get a feedback and inputs from them and, overall, to enhance citizens’ participation in governance.” This further explains why the meetings have gone round the six get-political zones of the country. At the end of the meeting, stakeholders commended the federal government for the massive infrastructural development in the South West, while also urging them to do more especially in the area of power, road and security across the country.