 Water-tight security arrangements have been made by the Rivers State Police Command and other security agencies, for Saturday’s national convention of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the peaceful and hitch-free. Port Harcourt, the capital of the hitherto volatile Rivers state in the Niger Delta and its environs are being properly policed, considering the large number of PDP members from the 36 states of Nigeria and Abuja, that will be converging on Adokiye Amaesimaka Stadium to elect PDP’s presidential candidate that will challenge President Muhammadu Buhari, who is the presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), during the 2019 election. Rivers Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Nnamdi Omoni, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), on Friday in a telephone interview, assured all PDP delegates and other persons who would be at the convention that there would be adequate protection of their lives and property, urging them not to entertain any fear. Omoni said: “Water-tight security arrangements have been made by the Rivers State Police Command. I can assure you that the national convention of PDP will be seamlessly held and there will be no security breach, in view of the heavy deployment of policemen in the venue of the national convention, hotels, entry and exit points, as well as other strategic points. “All the black spots in Port Harcourt and its environs have been identified and are being properly policed. Movements in the day and night, before, during and after the convention will be without any incident.” The twelve presidential aspirants who are vying at the convention are Aminu Tambuwal, Atiku Abubakar, Rabiu Kwankwaso, Bukola Saraki, Sule Lamido, Ahmed Makarfi, Attahiru Bafarawa, Ibrahim Dankwambo, Tanimu Turaki, Datti Baba-Ahmed, David Mark and Jonah Jang. The Director-General of Tambuwal Campaign Organisation, Mike Omeri, also assured that the Governor of Sokoto State would be crowned winner by the delegates at PDP’s national convention, in view of his capacity, youthfulness, capability, experience and being the most qualified. Omeri, while addressing a crowded news conference Friday at Hotel Presidential, Port Harcourt, said: “The accredited delegates will be free to cast their votes without interference, but I can assure you that almost all of them will vote for Gov. Tambuwal, who has never been invited for questioning by any security or anti-graft agency. “Gov. Tambuwal is young and he believes in the future of Nigeria. He also believes that Nigeria has passed the stage of potential, but now at the stage of possibilities and fulfilment of dreams. He has a blueprint to transform Nigeria and he always speaks from the heart.” The director-general of Tambuwal campaign organisation also gave an assurance that his principal would take Nigeria to the next level and would quickly restructure Nigeria, shortly after his May 29, 2019 inauguration as President.