One youth, one skill’ is an initiative of Anambra State Governor Willie Ob-iano which was unveiled about two months ago. Its aim is to mop up joblessness with skills. To achieve this, these skills acquisition centers within these geographical zones will be operational all year round, leveraging on the community philanthropists and Corporate organisations support. The state government told The Nation it has concluded plans to train 10,000 youths  annually in addition to the number already trained. The project will be implemented in all the vocational skill centers within the state to run simultaneously. Speaking on the project, the state Commissioner for youth empowerment and creative Economy, Bonaventure Enenali and the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mrs Keri Uzor, said it is the best thing for the youth. The duo said this during the official flag off of the Skill Acquisition training programme, at the youth arena in Awka by the Deputy Governor of the state, Dr Nkem Okeke. Enemali, said skill acquisition was very crucial to solving youth restiveness and unemployment, adding that it meant exposing the youth into different skills or training that makes them proactive. He said   the state is starting off with 250 youth who would be on a month intensive skill training in many things. For the Deputy Governor, Dr Nkem Okeke, who represented Governor Willie Obiano, said they must have integrity to succeed, adding that it was a great opportunity for them to excel. He said his being the deputy Governor was not because of his education or background, but because of integrity, adding that they must keep to their words. He said the Governor had made agriculture the way forward in Anambra, the way he conquered security, adding that the way the government had arrested these ones was the way he was planning to engage the youth. Some of the skills the youth are taken up included, Aluminium roofing and installation, Electrical works, shoe and bag making, fashion designing. Others are, graphic and photography, woodwork Technology, Auto mechanics, paint production, Cosmetology, House hold chemicals production and Agriculture among others. The state Director, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, Sule Momodu, was represented by the public Relations officer, Charles Efosa. He told them that if they acquire the skills, it would take them away from all sorts of crimes including being involved in illicit drugs. He said the agency had already destroyed three laboratories involved in producing Metaphitalindrugs in Anambra State. The Senior Special Adviser to Obiano on youth Mobilisation, Ugonna Emechebe, charged them to embark on knowledge acquisition and put them into action by being courageous and discipline 