•Ortom commiserates with affected families Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom has condoled with families of victims of the boat that mishap at the Buruku crossing point of River Katsina-Ala on Wednesday night. Eyewitnesses said 20 persons died in the boat, which left Logo at 8 p.m and capsized on the Buruku side of the river. The Chairman of Ugonduzua branch of Benue Motorcycle Association Mr  Felix Ikyaajime said the association lost 17 members. The governor, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prof Anthony Ijohor (SAN), spoke when he visited the scene of the incident. He was accompanied by the Chairmen of Buruku and Logo local government areas, some commissioners and special advisers. Ortom described the boat mishap as unfortunate and painful, adding that a similar incident, in which 17 persons died, occurred at the same point five years ago. The governor urged the Federal Government to build a bridge across the Buruku axis of River Katsina-Ala to prevent the loss of more lives. Ijohor said: “Governor Ortom and his deputy, Benson Abounu, are deeply saddened by this unfortunate incident. The Government of Benue State will ensure that the victims are given necessary support. “Our appeal is that the Federal Government should build a bridge here at the Buruku crossing point of River Katsina-Ala to end frequent loss of lives.” He directed that recovered bodies of the victims should be deposited at the morgue of the General Hospital at Buruku while government would assist in the burial. Also, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Religious Affairs and Civil Society, Rev. Jacob Aernyi, sympathised with the families of victims of the boat mishap. Aernyi told reporters that he got details of the incident yesterday in his office in Makurdi through the Secretary of Buruku River Workers’ Union, Mr Samuel Nakombo. He described the incident as very unfortunate and called for more proactive measures by the Federal Government. The special adviser said a ship conveying more than 20 passengers and carrying some motorcycles was on sail on Wednesday evening when the ugly incident occurred. He said over 20 passengers were still missing while about 17 motorcycles were yet to be recovered. Mue Ter Ichongu, Chief Terngu Iorhuna, from Logo, who spoke on behalf of the affected communities, thanked Ortom for his prompt response. He said the residents were consoled by his visit. Ikyaajime said the victims were going for a burial ceremony at Buruku when the boat capsized. Three bodies and 18 motorcycles had been recovered by a rescue team yesterday while the search for others was in progress. I saw bodies floating on river, says boat operator. A 25-year-old boat operator, Tersoo Ape, told The Nation how the boat capsized and his efforts to rescue the passengers as well as recover the bodies of victims. The boat operator spoke at the bank of River Katsina-Ala. He said: “My name is Tersoo Ape. I have been in the boat business for nine years at Buruku crossing point. “On Wednesday evening, some people came to the other side of bank of the river. They were many: some had motorcycles; others wore mourning clothes. They told us that they were on their way to attend a wake and burial across the river. “So, we provided a big boat. They loaded their motorcycles inside the boat with many passengers. Everyone was struggling to board the boat. We discovered that it wasn’t possible. So, we pleaded with others to wait for another boat, but our plea turned on deaf ears. “Halfway across the river, the boat’s engine stopped and heavy waves attacked the boat. It immediately capsized. “The passengers in the boat were men and women as well as youths. Some of them could not swim; so, they were submerged in the deep water. “I dived into the river and rescued those I could. But the following day (yesterday) when we continued the search, I saw many bodies floating on top of the water. It was a horrible sight.” Ape urged the state government to provide standard passenger boats and build a bridge across the river to link Benue with Taraba State. 