Kia Motors last week unveiled the new Kia ProCeed at the 2018 Paris Motor Show. The shooting brake made its debut alongside the new high-performance Ceed GT and ProCeed GT, as well as the Ceed GT Line. The Kia e-Niro electric crossover also premiered European at the show. According to Kia Motors Europe Chief Operating Officer, Emilio Herrera, the new cars underlined the level of ambition and design passion that defined Kia’s cars. The ProCeed, Herrara said, offers buyers stunning and emotional design, the Ceed GT provides maximum driver engagement, and the e-Niro helps to break down the barriers to electric car ownership, making it easy, fun and reliable. All four models unveiled by Kia in Paris will be sold with the company’s unique seven-year, 150,000 km warranty as standard. Kia’s warranty also covers the lithium-ion polymer battery pack in the e-Niro. The ProCeed merged stunning coupé-inspired lines with tourer versatility. Shown publicly for the first time in Paris, the new Kia ProCeed merged stunning design with the space and versatility of a tourer in a five-door shooting brake body. The ProCeed will go on sale exclusively to European drivers at the beginning of next year. Carrying the name over from the second-generation Kia pro_cee’d three-door coupé, the new ProCeed has been designed, developed and engineered in Europe. A product of Kia’s European design, product development and R&D teams in Frankfurt, Germany, the ProCeed will be manufactured at the brand’s Žilina production facility in Slovakia. It will be built alongside the Kia Ceed and Ceed Sportswagon, first introduced earlier this year. The Ceed GT majors on performance and accomplished ride and handling. It is more accomplished and fun-to-drive than ever. The original cee’d GT and pro_cee’d GT were launched in 2013, as the first ever performance hatchbacks from a Korean brand. The new Ceed GT picked up where its predecessors left off, with an assured, engaging drive and a powerful 1.6-litre T-GDi (turbo-charged gasoline direct injection) engine, as well as a comprehensive range of comfort, safety and convenience technologies. The Ceed GT’s sporty exterior design differentiates it visually from other models in the Ceed range. Where the design of the conventional Ceed is characterised by taut creases and curvaceous sheet metal, the GT variant presents a more athletic proposition, with new front and rear bumpers, sills and a series of red highlights around the exterior. The GT variant was built around the same ergonomic cabin architecture as other models in the Ceed line-up. Surfaces are finished in high-quality soft-touch materials and metallic trim, while the dashboard angled towards the driver, making it easier to use on the move. At the centre of the dashboard is Kia’s ‘floating’ touchscreen infotainment system – 7.0- or 8.0-inches wide – with audio and heating and ventilation controls situated below. For the first time in a performance hatchback from Kia, the new Ceed GT will be available with an optional seven-speed double-clutch transmission, in addition to the standard six-speed manual gearbox. Kia e-Niro combines driving enjoyment, eye-catching design, crossover utility and a zero-emissions powertrain – to create one of the most capable electric vehicles on-sale worldwide. It has been designed to break down barriers to electric car ownership, offering long-distance driving range, more intelligent packaging, and greater practicality than many other electric vehicles. The e-Niro is the first fully electric crossover utility vehicle produced by Kia, providing a zero-emissions driving range of up to 485 kilometres (301 miles) on a single charge of its 64 kWh long-range battery pack. The long-range battery is also capable of travelling up to 615 kilometres (382 miles) in the city – further than many gasoline vehicles. The e-Niro is also available with a 39.2 kWh battery, which offers a driving range of up to 312 kilometres (193 miles) on a single charge. Inside the Kia e-Niro, the cabin combines a modern design with generous space and technologies that complement its zero-emissions powertrain. Buyers will also benefit from a range of dedicated electric vehicle in-car technologies to maximise range and efficiency, as well as new safety features, and differentiated exterior and interior design. 