Proponents of the community policing as a better strategy for fighting crime have something to cheer. The Imo State police command has recording some astounding success in crime-fighting largely because it embraced the people-based strategy. Armed robbers, kidnappers and other criminal elements in the state no longer have any safe havens; they are no more shielded from security men by their kindred. Now security has become everybody’s business. Before the adoption of community policing in the state, criminals operated like ghosts, leaving no trace or clues after carrying out heinous attacks. They simply disappeared into thin air and melted into the communities, where they enjoyed complete cover by the same people, who should assist the security operatives to bring them to justice. Often, villagers look the other way or sometimes act as informers to kidnappers who use their homes as dens to keep their victims until ransoms are paid. In some communities, it is regarded as a serious offence to volunteer information to police that may assist in tracking down criminals and people who engage in such act of assisting security operatives, are marked as saboteurs and victimized or killed in severe cases. This indifferent attitude had seriously impeded the fight against criminality, as the police will always adduce and correctly too that they are not magicians but will rely on credible information from the public to successfully check crime. Crime rate in the state has been largely attributed to this connivance of the people, which has made them accomplice by hoarding otherwise useful information from the police. Although most of them, stake away from giving out information to the Police, for fear that it will not be treated with utmost confidentiality. And true to their fears, most people have been dealt with by criminal elements for giving them out to the Police. But it is no more so today in Imo state, thanks to community policing, which has taken root in the state. Criminals, especially kidnappers are easily rounded up by the Police, with full assistance from the communities who report their movements to security operatives. Now in Imo State, especially the villages, strange movements are promptly reported to the Police, which also respond with equal promptness. This has helped in no little means in busting criminal syndicates that had been holding sway in the state. The people have totally bought into the community policing module, such that they flood the police emergency hotlines with actionable information daily, resulting in major breakthroughs recorded by the Police in recent times. The criminals are no more invincible, they are gradually realising that the game is up, they can no longer hide under the covering of the people they are haunting, the society has rejected them. Commending the module, the State Commissioner of Police, Dasuki Galadanchi, said that it has helped proactive policing in the state. He said that the Police and the people are now in the same page in the war against criminality. Galadanchi, stated further that the concept of community policing was created by the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris to carry the people along in crime fighting and prevention as major stakeholders. According to Galadanchi, the Police have been able with the help of the community policing to burst crimes at the planning stage before they are committed, adding that, “it is better to prevent crime than to fight crime. If you arrest criminals after they have struck and killed their victim, you have not done much. Or if after one is kidnapped, you move in and rescue the victim, the trauma can last for a life time, so it is far better to prevent crime”. In the last few months, over 5000 criminal elements including suspected kidnappers, armed robbers, rapists, cultists and ‘baby factory’ operators have been rounded up by Police based on credible information. Speaking recently, during the parade of the leader of  a notorious kidnap syndicate, Uchenna Ugwueze, the Commissioner of Police, stated that, “I will like to tell you that the policy of the Federal Government that says If you see something say something and slogan of change begins with me is working in Imo state. “It is good that you know that through our community policing method our men were given a tip off on the kidnap of one Mrs. Evans Ajaps, and they moved into action and they were able to rescue her”. He continued that, “the Imo state Police Command in our renewed onslaught against crime and criminality in the state has fully activated the community policing and it has paid off with major arrests recorded in the state recently. The benefits of the community policing are overwhelming, now everybody is a partner in the fight against criminality”.