Telecommunication company, 9mobile has said it is working with strategic partners and other key players within the digital services ecosystem to help Nigerian businesses deliver breakthrough results through the rapid adoption of Internet of Things (IoT). IoT allows a network of ‘things’ – any form of equipment or device with embedded electronic and powered by software – that are connected (via the Internet and other forms of connectivity) and designed to interact in a specific context (business, social, etc.) through the exchange of data.  It creates opportunities for businesses and governments to access real time information that can improve efficiency, responsiveness and overall performance. Speaking as a panel discussant on ‘Making Internet of Things Work for Business’ at the 2018 Nigeria Com Conference held in Lagos, Otuyemi Otule, 9mobile’s Chief Product and Information Officer, highlighted the benefits IoT can bring to businesses, and stressed that security and the people implications are as important in IoT considerations as are the drivers for adopting IoT in the first place. Otule further stated that businesses have to ensure that none of the components in their IoT network is vulnerable. “The best way to protect your business is to embark on this IoT journey with a partner who understands your threat landscape because it is illogical to focus your resources on dealing with the ever-changing threat landscape rather than on your core business. You therefore need to work with professionals who understand the industry and your business’ vulnerabilities,” he said, adding that protecting and securing businesses and customers start with securing the gateway or door.  Otule, also highlighted the importance of IoT in industries including manufacturing, healthcare and logistics, disclosed that the benefits of IoT services to Nigerian enterprises include quality improvement, cost effectiveness, and speed in service delivery. He however enjoined organisations to also factor in the people element in the adoption of IoT. Despite the incredibly high cost of maintaining infrastructure, Otule affirmed the commitment of 9mobile and its partners to deepen investments in cutting-edge technology and innovation aimed at creating the solutions that will enable businesses and individual customers embrace IoT securely and cost-effectively.     