A suspected masquerade has been apprehended in Akure, the Ondo State capital by the Police for allegedly stabbing a young man to death. Sources said the incident occured at Olomoyeye Street, Oke-Aro, Akure when the deceased identified as Femi Makanjuola went to buy some food items. He was said to have been accosted by the masquerade who demanded for money. Eye witness said the deceased had just secured a job with Dangote Cement Company. The masquerade and his accomplice reportedly stabbed Makanjuola to death after he was said to have refused to yield to the demand of the masquerade. He said “Makanjuola resides with his brother, he had secured a job with Dangote cement company in Benin city with the hope of resuming office on Monday, 8th October 2018. “He was preparing to cook beans and had gone to a nearby shop for ingredients to spice up the food when he met his death. It was also alleged that their had been an altercation between the alleged killer and the deceased some weeks ago, which was said to have
been settled by mother of the deceased, Mrs. Monisola Awosanmi who also confirmed the preexisting animosity between her slain son and the father of the alleged killer. Parading the suspect at the State Police Command,its Spokesman, Femi Joseph who confirmed the incident, said the chief priest of the masquerade crew had been arrested. The PPRO maintained that preliminary investigation into the matter have already commenced with the suspect already assisting the police with relevant information. He said “All Over the world what we know about masquerade dance is to entertain the people. What happened in Akure was to the contrary. “Five young boys were on a outing with one of them acting as a masqurader, and they got to where one Femi Makanjuola was. The masqueraders demanded money which the deceased refused to give and this did not go down well with them. “The argument led to the stabbing of the deceased after he had been thoroughly beaten by the masqueraders and his followers. “Investigation is ongoing towards apprehending other accomplices involved in the crime”. However, the suspected masquerade who has been identified as Olu Olowokere denied involvement in the killing of Makanjuola.