The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), on Thursday warned dealers in vandals and adulterated petroleum products that once they are caught, prosecuted and found guilty, they shall be sentenced to 21 years imprisonment. Its Commandant General, Abdullahi Muhammadu disclosed this in his goodwill message at the Re-Inauguration ceremony of the new Executive Committee members of the Natural Oil and Gas Suppliers Association of Nigeria (NOGASA) in Abuja. His word: “There are laws, when you tamper with pipeline, damage and forceful removal. Anybody arrested on that fact will be charged under miscellaneous offenses act, and if found guilty, he will be prosecuted according to the law, and it is 21 years imprisonment.” Pledging the commitment of the corp to partner with the gas suppliers to tackle the menace of bunkering, vandalism of pipelines and adulteration of products, the noted that offenses are all different charges, which any arrested suspected must face. The president of the association’s Board of Trustees (BOT), Mr. Bennett Korie, whom the Abdullahi Idris Deputy Chairman, BOT had said in his address that NOGASA was registered to partner with government agencies to discourage illicit transactions and distribution of adulterated petroleum products, and to aggressively campaign against sourcing of products from vandalized pipelines as well as other unlawful sources. He added that every member of the association shall be exposed to some benefits such as provision of support for products, capital, insurance, litigation, banking relationships, information on product availability and price fluctuations. In his acceptance speech, Korie warned those that prefer illegal loading points to desist from it, noting that it is no longer necessary. According to him, illegal deal is harmful to the reputation of their business. He explained that as employers of labour, it is better to guide against anything that can jeopardize the jobs of their employees and frequent damage emanating from use age of adulterated products. Thanking the association, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, who was represented by Salamatu Abdukadir, urged the members to sustain the cooperation that has existed between them and the federal government.