PDP candidate paid N10.3m tax Buhari’s papers ‘with military’ Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar has declared a personal income of N60.2 million in three years, according to the credentials he filed with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) He also indicated in his tax returns attached to his presidential nomination form that he paid N10.8 million tax between 2015 and 2017. Atiku is reputed to be a billionaire, one of Nigeria’s richest. He has been campaigning  with his ability to create millions of jobs as, according to him, he does now with his numerous companies. His N60.2 million income in three years is likely to suprise many. The PDP candidate’s credentials indicate his highest educational qualification as a Diploma in Law of 1969 from the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU). President Muhammadu Buhari, in an affidavit to support his form, said his credentials are still with the military. In the sworn affidavit, the President, who is the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), said: “I am the above-named person and the deponent of this affidavit herein. All my academic qualification documents as filled in my Presidential form, APC/001/2015 are currently with the Secretary of the Military Board as of the time of this affidavit.” Seventy-four other people, apart from Buhari and Atiku, have filed nomination forms with the INEC to run for President on February 16 – 112 days away. Yesterday,  INEC, in line with Section 31 (3) of the Electoral Act 2010, as amended published the names and particulars of the candidates. The candidates for senatorial and House of Representatives seats have also been published in the states. The final days for submission of names of presidential candidates and Senate/House of Reps  was last Thusday. The Electoral Act Section 31 (3) states: “The commission shall, within seven days of the receipt of the personal particulars of the candidates, publish same in the constituency where the candidate intends to contest the election.” Some of the other presidential candidates are Obadiah Mailafia of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Donald Duke of the Social Democratic Party (SDP)  and Olusegun Mimiko of Zenith Labour Party(ZLP). The list of senatorial candidates from the states as published include: Anambra Senators Victor Umeh, Stella Oduah and Uche Ekwenife are listed to contest senatorial seats. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that INEC displayed the list of candidates for the 2019 general election and their particulars at the INEC state headquarters in Awka. Head, Voter Education and Publicity, Mr Leo Nkedife  said: “Today we formally publish the list of candidates as submitted by the political parties in line with Section 31(3) of the Electoral Act as amended. “It stipulates that INEC must publish the particulars of the candidates submitted to INEC within seven days. “In compliance to that, we hereby publish the list of candidates submitted to INEC. In Anambra Central Senatorial District, the published candidates are Mr Charles Odunukwe of Peoples Democratic (PDP), Umeh of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and Ekwunife of All Progressives Congress (APC). In South Senatorial District, Sen. Andy Uba of the APC, Mr Chukwunedum Ubah of the PDP and Chief Nicholas Ukachukwu of APGA made the list. For North Senatorial District, Sen. Margery Okadigbo of the APC, Oduah of the PDP and Chief Chinedu Emeka of APGA made the provisional list. Nkedife said the list of governorship and House of Assembly candidates will be published on November 2. Bayelsa The INEC yesterday released the list of qualified candidates in Yenagoa.. In Bayelsa West, immediate past Commissioner of Works and Infrastructure  Lawrence Ewhrujakpo is the PDP’s candidate. He will contest against Capt. Mathew Karimo of the APC. In Bayelsa East,  Edwin Blessing Ipigansi (PDP) and Bishop Degi Eraumieyo (APC) will square it up. In  Bayelsa Central, Douye Diri (PDP) and Festus Daumeri (APC) will slug it out. For the Sagbama-Ekeremor Federal Constituency, Famous Daumeigha (APC) and Fredrick Agnes (PDP); Yenagoa-Opokuma, Osomkeme Blankson, APC and Steve Azaiki PDP; Southern Ijaw, Preye Oseke, APC. Others are Ogbia Federal Constituency, Samuel Ogbuku (APC), Fred Obua (PDP); Brass, Isreal Sunny-Goli,  APC and Marie Ebikake,  PDP. Lagos .A check by a NAN correspondent at INEC office in Lagos revealed that 50 candidates are contesting for the three Lagos senatorial seats from 25 political parties. There are 249 candidates across 30 political parties contesting the state’s 24 seats in the House of Representatives. A breakdown of the list showed that the Lagos West Senatorial District has the highest contenders of 22 candidates. Lagos East and Lagos Central had 15 and 13 contestants. Political parties fielding candidates in Lagos West are: Accord, AA, ADP, AAC, ADC, APC, AD, ANP, APM, CAP, DPP, GPN, MPN, NCP, ND, PDP, PPN, PRP, PT, PPC, UDP and YPP. Political parties fielding candidates in Lagos East are: Accord, ACD, AAC, ADC, APC, AD, CAP, DPP, ID, MPN, PDP, PPN, PT and PPC. In Lagos Central, the following parties have candidates: Accord, ACD, ADC, APC, ANP, FJP, ID, LM, MPN, PDP and PT. For the House of Representatives seats, of the 30 political parties participating, only PDP, APC and ADC are fielding candidates in all the 24 federal constituencies. Others did not. Ogun The names of outgoing  Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun(Ogun Central) is on the list of senatorial candidates of the APC. The other APC candidates are Chief of Staff to the Governor Tolu Odebiyi (Ogun West) and Senator Lekan Mustapha(Ogun East). For the House of Representatives son of former Governor Olusegun Osoba, Hon. Olumide Osoba, is listed for Obafemi – Owode and Odeda Federal Constituency seat. The others are  Jimoh Ojugbele (Ado/Odo/Ota), Sulaiman Ismail(Ijebu North, Ijebu East and Ogun Waterside constituency), Ibrahim Isiaka (Ifo/ Ewekoro Federal Constituency),  Edun Oladapo, (Abeokuta South Federal Constituency), Biyi Otegbeye (Egbado South and Ipokia), Kayode Oladele(Egbado North, Imeko Afon) Osunsanya Korede(Ijebu North, Ijebu -Ode, Odogbolu) and Adewunmi Onanuga (Ikenne, Remo North, Sagamu). Senatorial candidates of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) are: former Speaker Titi Oseni – Gomez (Ogun Central), Mr. Adedeji Ashiru (Ogun East) and Mr. Babatunde Ogunola (Ogun West). FCT Also pasted at the INEC national secretariat is the particulars of 22 candidates for one FCT Senatorial District seat and 24candidates jostling for two FCT House of Representatives seats. Those contesting for the Senate are Sen. Zaphaniah Jisalo (APC); Sen. Philip Aduda, (PDP); Esther Audu,  (ADC) and Eric lbe, (SDP). For the House of Representatives (AMAC Bwari) are Lamorde Hallilu (APC) Micah Jiba (PDP); and Ene Idoko-Abel (ADC). Benue In Benue State, former Governor Gabriel Suswam PDP) will battle Senator Barnabas Gemade (SDP), Joseph Akaagerger (APGA) and Former Benue State Internal Revenue Service Chair Mrs Mimi Orubi (APC) will contest for the Zone A Benue North East senatorial seat. For Zone B Benue North West Senatorial district the top candidates are Senator George Akume (APC) and Chairman House Committee on Businesses (PDP) In Zone C which Senator David Mark is vacating, former Minister Abba Morro (PDP) is running against former permanent Secretary of Defence,Okibe Onoja Mike (SDP) are running. 