The Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) Plc has won the award for its Outstanding Contribution to the Capital Markets in Nigeria. The award organisers, London-based Capital Finance International (CFI.co), a print journal and online resource reporting on business, economics and finance, the CSCS, having fulfilled all the CFI.co’s award selection requirements, and based on the initial nomination and voting by CFI.co readers, contributors, subscribers, visitors all over the world to their website, was shortlisted. The awards judging panel, also, having gone through the rigorous exercise, reviewed and declared CSCS as the winner of the prestigious award of Outstanding Contribution to the Capital Markets in Nigeria 2018. CSCS Managing Director, Mr. Haruna Jalo -Waziri said the award was a confirmation and testimony of the company’s consistent hard work, investment in technology and customer focus. “The award is a call to service to continue to deliver excellent services to all the markets we serve. This achievement is shaped by the strength of the foundations we have set. It is as a result of consistent hard work, investment in technology and being customer focused. The foundation of any great organisation such as ours is deeply rooted in technology and sterling services. For us at CSCS, customer service is not a department or unit, it is an attitude,” Jalo-Waziri said. He said the company began this year by setting a three-year strategic plan-2018 to 2020, focusing on five strategic pillars of enhanced technology, process optimisation, customer satisfaction, partnership through strategic alliances, and revenue growth. “Staying focused on these strategic pillars has started yielding enviable results and more to come,” Jalo-Waziri said. According to CFI.co judging panel, CSCS continues to respond efficiently and faithfully to the needs of the securities and commodities market and has a proud record of providing sterling services to the capital markets in Nigeria. The panel also noted that CSCS looks to the best international models when planning its business, but insists on incorporating in its plan, features that respond to the specific needs of the Nigerian market. “CSCS takes its corporate governance responsibilities very seriously and constantly seeks out ways to improve. CSCS, a most innovative company, is very keen to harness technological developments in support of the services it offers. This is a very well-financed and managed firm that is moving from strength-to-strength,” the panel stated. Every year, CFI.co seeks out individuals and organisations that contribute significantly to the convergence of economies and truly add value to all stakeholders.