Barely two years after it plunged into a crisis that disrupted its academic calendar, the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Oyo State, is courting another. Students are asking if it is justified for the school management to increase  tuition fees? The students of the school, jointly owned by Oyo and Osun states, believe the recent increase in tuition fees is part of a grand plan to make education unaffordable for children of the poor. The school, last week, issued a memo to announce more than 100 per cent increment in tuition fees. According to the memo signed by the registrar, students who are indigenes of owner states are to pay N200,000, from N65,000 paid the previous academic session, while non-indigenes will pay N250,000, from N72,500 they paid previously. The breakdown of the new fees was sent to the students through their email, signed by the school registrar a day before the students came out to protest the tuition fee hike. Students, however, rejected the new fee regime, describing it as “commercialisation of education”. In a protest last week, the demonstrators called on the management to maintain the status quo, vowing not to pay the new fees. The protesters asked the management to explain the rationale for raising the fee by more than 100 per cent, noting that the school did not consider the current economic situation of the country before embarking on the fees hike. The demonstrators, who gathered at the entrance of the school’s main campus by 8am to participate in the protest tagged: #OccupyLAUTECH, chanted various Aluta songs. Their colleagues in the Osogbo, Osun State, campus also staged a rally simultaneously. The protesters paralysed activities on both campuses of the school. Bonfires were made on the Ilorin-Ogbomoso Highway, which is directly in front on the main entrance of the Ogbomoso Campus, leaving travellers stranded for hours on the road. The protesters accused the management of insensitivity, saying the increment was ill-timed and needless. It should be recalled that the school, two years ago, faced a crisis that resulted in the disruption of its academic calendar. The campuses were shut for more than six months by the LAUTECH chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), which accused the Oyo and Osun governments of an attempt to close the institution due to their inability to finance it. Sunday Ajani, a protester and clerk of the Student Representatives’ Council (SRC), said many students’ academic pursuits could end with the introduction of the new fees, noting that most students struggled to pay the old fee. The students’ leader said the increment was an attempt by the school management to deny the children of the poor their right to education. He said: “Education should be a right and not a privilege. Increasing the tuition fees will deny majority of the students their right to acquire education. If education cannot be made free for all, then it should be affordable for the children of the rich and the poor. “The management should know that many students are still owing school fees when it was N65,000 and N72,000. How do they expect them to cope with these new fees? We appeal to the Oyo and Osun governments to increase the subvention given to the institution in order to make education affordable. Our parents shouldn’t pay through their nose because they want to give us education.” Rofeehat Akinloye, a 200-Level Accounting student, described the new fees as “joke of the year”. She said: “I believe the proposed tuition fees are just a joke, but the school management should know that students won’t take it lightly with them. That’s why there was protest to show the school that the increment shouldn’t be the next thing for now. “While we wait patiently for the next action from the management after our protest, I will rather suggest they revert to the old tuition fees paid in 2017/2018 session by indigenes and non-indigenes. I am optimistic that the school will do the needful. They should not chase away the fresh students recently admitted with the new tuition fees.” Another student, who pleaded for anonymity, said: “Those governing the school should know that many of us are dependants and our parents struggle to pay the old fees. In as much as we are not the only ones our parents have to cater for, how do they expect us to raise such a whooping amount of money for school fees? “I have a younger brother, who wants to sit for Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) next year and these expenses are on my parents. If they cannot get the money, it means that one of us has to stop going to school. I have a classmate whose parents went to borrow money from a credit society last year to pay his fees. Till today, they are still paying back the money. I am just waiting for the school to release our results, after which I may consider applying for a transfer to another school.” Some of the LAUTECH students took to social media platforms to express their grievances. A 300-Level student, who simply gave his name as John, wrote on Twitter: “The only feasible solution for me is to drop out now or what do you expect a poor student like me to do? I can’t afford the new fee. I can’t.” CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the Students’ Union Government (SUG) leaders are meeting with the school leadership for a compromise on the new fees. It was gathered that the SUG leaders resolved that they would continue with the protest if the school management does not reverse the increment within 48 hours. The students, it was learnt, are also considering taking their protest to both Oyo and Osun governments’ houses. When reached for comments, the Head, Public and Alumni Relations Unit, Mr Lekan Fadeyi said he was not authorised to speak on the matter. “I cannot speak on the matter. You know it is a Council decision.  It is only the Registrar that can speak as he is the Secretary to Council,” he said.