Farm settlements manned by different people working in tandem and directly supervised by government functionaries will do a lot of good for our collective souls. Fear of hunger will knit us together Have I told you I do not take part in arguments, particularly useless ones? I have? Good. I’ll say it again. Argumentative encounters are usually for me worse than close encounters of the third or fourth kind. Imagine, for instance, having to prove that snails have ears. Where do you start? You can describe the species to your heart’s content or ask the garden gnome, but I doubt if you’ll leave your audience any wiser. I know that it would perhaps require an argument to determine just when Nigeria’s rot began: before or after the civil war. There is no doubt though that past governments in this country, before and after the civil war till now, have a great deal to answer for. One after the other, like a pack of stacked dominoes, they just could not resist falling over themselves in leading the country out of the light into the dark, dank, rank, abysmally deep woods by choosing unconsciousness. It soon became a case of who could do it better as the country rolled from one evil regime to the other all the while asking: who is responsible for this contradictory contraption here? On account of this, the social services so longed for have failed to make an appearance, particularly agricultural services. You guessed it, I love food. I still remember the years of OFN – Operation Feed the Nation and the Green Revolution of then Gen. Obasanjo when the entire nation was commanded to grow something to feed this country. I remember people responding very enthusiastically then. Many got themselves fields to plant food crops, many got ranches to grow cows and chickens on. I went out and got myself pots to grow tomatoes in. No, don’t scoff yet. My tomatoes grew but not enough to feed me (now you can scoff). And what with growing a house and children and other things, I gradually forgot about my potted tomatoes and fed instead on other people’s farms. Gradually, the nation also forgot about feeding the nation and the economy continued to suffer. We are told though that the Nigerian economy is growing (Ha!) by about 7.5% and I want to ask on what exactly? If we measure growth by output, then we need to count the number of times I have purchased wood (e.g. to construct a new hen house) which is nil; or cassava seedlings (e.g. to make garri) which is also nil; or palm kernel fruit (e.g. for some oil) which is again nil; and so on. On the other hand, if we measure the growth by input, we may stand on surer ground. For instance, I am sure that I now consume a larger amount of rice than before in proportion to my ever expanding body mass. In other words, it’s the law of demand and supply for me where rice is concerned. Interestingly, I also understand that the entire country has upped its own rice consumption too, up to about one billion Naira worth per day! Honestly, this body mass index thing is terrible; everyone is getting bigger and bigger. Could it be because we all eat more rice? And do we need to eat more rice because we are now bigger? I am confused; it’s like the age old riddle: which came first, the chicken or the egg? Anyway, here we are, everyone is eating rice and few are actually putting their minds to growing a few blades of it. There really should be a revolution in rice eating and growing. I think that if a law were to be enacted that whoever cannot grow rice should not eat it, things might change. And I think we should start with the children. No one eats rice more than those little tykes. And I hear many of them even have favourites too. Seriously. Many will not eat ‘rice that is not white’, or ‘rice that does not come from a bag’. That means, of course, that they turn up their pert little noses at the idea of eating ‘rice with stones’. Now, that is a to-do. I like to remember my growing up years. Rice actually featured very little in it since my poor ol’ grandmother only managed to lay her hands on some grains of it once or so a week. Who then could turn up a nose at the grains of sand (I swear they all looked like rice to me back then) that served the very useful purpose of increasing the substance on the plate? None. So … now what was I talking about before I digressed into the stony country of rice? Ah yes, we are told that bread also takes a large proportion of our foreign earnings. Now, that is sad. The truth is that food production in this country is at an incredibly low level because the government has never really encouraged those of us in it (including potted tomato growers). To really encourage us to do something more than eat and get fat, the government needs to put a few things in place. Farm Communes should be encouraged. I have said again and again that there is nothing more painful to the heart than to travel through the entire countryside in Nigeria and find tall grasses idling their lives away because no one has deigned to shift them. Farm settlements manned by different people working in tandem and directly supervised by government functionaries will do a lot of good for our collective souls. Fear of hunger will knit us together. This again depends on the completion of the revolution taking place in the banks: i.e. bank executive members would have been given complete tutorials on how not to ask for their own ten per cent cut from the loans they give out to these farmers or to seek first the increasingly sharper practices. It is clear though that without the banks, the commune system cannot work. The private entrepreneurs should also be encouraged to invest in the purchase of the products of these commune farmers. As it stands now, these entrepreneurs appear to be interested only in quick-yielding enterprises, not buying corn to watch for when it will change colour. I was alarmed to hear that the government is actually building and installing storage facilities to store farm produce. It would be good if the government workers were known for their ability to actually be interested in the maintenance of such projects. Experience tells us that while such facilities are new, the workers would deem them romantic but would soon lose interest, especially when their salaries are a little tardy… It is only profit-driven individuals who can maintain the nobility of these storage projects, and may be develop one or two industries along the way to consume the products. Then truly, something must be done about the Fulani cattle herdsmen who value their cattle far above rubies and definitely far above anybody’s crops or life. It seems that they have assumed a national culture of just lobbing off anyone who dares complain that their cattle have destroyed a farm. I have heard so many stories of how cattlemen are judge, jury, and executioner in matters concerning their cattle, exerting (human) limb for (cow) limb, eye for eye, (human) life for (cow) life. And the police look on. To be sure, agricultural development ensures food security which also in turn ensures national security. To ensure that development, some serious thinking that will hopefully lead to some serious action needs to be done. There are too many of us hungry ones to be rescued who cannot go beyond potted tomato-farming.