Three students of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) in Ondo State, have emerged winners of the Communication Skills Competition (CSC) in the yearly Students’ Empowerment Programme organised by the AAUA Alumni Association. Oluwafemi Okegbemi, a 300-Level History and International Studies student, emerged overall best contestant in the competition, clinching the first prize. Olawale Olanrewaju, a 300-Level Arts Education student, finished as the first runner-up, while Seun Kupoluyi, a 100-Level Microbiology student, was the second runner up. A cash prize N20,000 was presented to the only woman contestant, Oluwabukunmi Olaleye, a 100-Level Law student, who made it to the top 10 and second runner-up in the writing category of the competition. Twenty-nine students from all faculties participated in both writing and speaking categories of the contest with the topic: Can the prevailing yahoo plus and other Internet fraud in Nigeria be curbed? If yes, what are the roles of the nation’s higher institutions, governments and parents in curtailing the menace? Oluwafemi got a scholarship for a full academic session, while Olawale and Seun got scholarship for a semester each. Presenting cheques to the winners, president of the alumni association, Mr Patrick Oluyide, congratulated the winners for the feat, praising the contestants for displaying courage to partake in the competition. He said the goal of the contest was to change the orientation of students and make them to embrace values that support dignity in labour and also help them improve their communication skills. Oluyide, who engaged the students in training tagged: Effective communication in the business world, stressed the need for the students to bridge the gap between the gown and the town. He said: “Most times, what students are taught in the university is different from what the society demands from them after graduation. So, students must maximise the advantage that a programme, such as this competition, offers them to acquire values which the society will request from them when they leave school.” The alumni president hailed the contest’s organising committee chaired by Oluwaseyi Oluwalade, describing the event as “fantastic”. Oluwafemi, an indigent student, said he did not believe he could win the contest, given the number of contestants that partook in the event. He said: “After I finished my write-up, I committed the work in God’s hands. I am overwhelmed with joy that the alumni association will be paying my fees next academic session, because I had been bothered on how to get money to my fees next year. A Good Samaritan paid my fees in the current session because my parents could not afford it. So, I am so happy.” Highlights of the event included presentation of trophy to the overall winner, and medals to the winners of second and third positions in both writing and speaking categories of the contest.   