Who could be responsible for the murder of a 15-year-old boy inside a church of God? Cultists or traditionalists? These questions have been begging for answers since unknown assailants attacked a group of youths inside the Methodist Church Obodo Ogbeni village, Umuoguduakpu community in Ohaukwu local government area. The hoodlums, The Nation  learnt, inflicted machete cut wounds on some of the youths when they were in a band practice at the church. One of them, Augustine Ogbu, 15, was killed in the attack. He had returned from church with his family members on that fateful day and decided to visit his namesake who is his father’s brother. As he got there he met his namesake’s children going to church band practice and he decided to accompany them to a Methodist Church where the practice was taking place. They got to the church and began practicing. Soon it became dark and they had to turn on the generator to continue practicing. As the band practice progressed, the generator that provided light for the activity went off. Unknown to them, the church premises had been surrounded by machete-wielding men who were on a mission to maim and kill them. One of the band boys decided to go outside to know what happened to the generator and he became the murderous gangs first casualty as they attacked him. Then all hell was let loose as the hoodlums stormed the church and began cutting anybody they could lay their hands on with their murderous weapons. While many of the victims of the attack, which happened around 9pm were later rushed to hospital and survived, though scarred for life, Augustine Ogbu, who is the fifth child in the family of eight children, was not so lucky as his wounds were so severe. His head was almost cut off from his body, it was gathered. Seven persons received serious machete cuts in the night attack are currently receiving treatment at Federal Teaching Hospital Abakaliki 2 (FETHA 2) and an undisclosed hospital in Ngbo Court axis of the village. There had been some cult killings in Ohaukwu Local Government Area with over five persons killed before the current killing. Reuben Abah, Ogbu’s father, told The Nation that cultist members were responsible for his son’s murder. Abah said: “The truth of the matter is that my son was killed. His name is Augustine Ogbu and he was 15 years because he was born in 2003. On September 2, being a Sunday, I came back from where I went to and when he told me that he wanted to go to my elder brother’s house who is his namesake and also lives in this village. “I told him to go and he went about 5 in the evening. “About 10:15pm of that day, I received message that my son was dead. He went to my elder brother’s house and together with his children they went to Methodist Church in our village for band practice. “They told me that the church was immediately invaded that night by hoodlums and everybody scampered for safety.  Our local vigilante immediately gathered and started looking for the invaders and arrested some of them. “When I got to the church, I saw my son’s corpse lying on the ground. When the matter was reported to the police, they came in the morning and carried his corpse to the mortuary after taking his pictures. “I also followed the police to the mortuary where the corpse was deposited; he is now in the mortuary. He was almost beheaded, only a tiny thread was holding the head from being entirely severed. “I would say that the killing of my son and the attack on those that sustained injuries was as a result of the thanksgiving in that church because a lot of people said they saw people wielding machetes and fighting during entertainment after the thanksgiving. In the night, they killed my son when they attacked the Methodist Church. “Some arrests have been made by our local vigilantes through a tip-off and handed over to the police because one of the victims said he was attacked but was lucky as the machete did not cut him so much. Our local vigilante asked him whether he could identify the person that attacked him and he said yes and led the vigilante to the person who was arrested. Some others were arrested. Later more arrests were made 