Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate Babajide Sanwo-Olu has promised to implement people-oriented programmes, if elected in next year’s election. He promised not neglect the master plan for development, which has given the state an edge in the last 19 years. Sanwo-Olu spoke on his plans for the Centre of Excellence during his “thank you” visit to party elders and leaders from the Lagos East Senatorial District, who converged on Presken Hotel, Ikeja for a meeting. He thanked God for his victory at the direct primary and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for his support. He also thanked the party elders, leaders and other stakeholders from the district for supporting him, despite his inability to meet with all of them before the primary. Sanwo-Olu described Lagos West as a diverse and outstanding in numbers and in all ramifications, adding that no candidate can take it for granted. “All of you are leaders in your own right. I appreciate you all,” he added. The flag bearer was accompanied by his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Aina, his campaign manager, Mr. Tayo Ayinde, Cardinal James Odunmbaku, Dr. Tola Kasali, Ashipa Kaoli Olusanya, Bayo Ajisebutu, Sesan daini,  and Segun Dawodu. He was received by Oluwa, Chief Oladele Ajomale, Dr. Abayomi Finnih, Prof. Tunde Samuel, Chief Sunny Ajose, Chief Funso Ologunde, Senator Ganiyu Solomon, Bayo Osiyemi, Demola Sodiq, Dr. Solomon Akin-Aina, Mrs. Kehinde Babalola, Shamushedeen Olaleye, Pa Olabimtan, Toke Benson, Dr. Adesola Taiwo, Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi, Ayodele Adewale, Hon. Lekan Ifemade, Wale Adelana, Yemi Ali, and Emmanuel Bamgboye. At the meeting, Southwest All Progressives Congress (APC) Women Leader Chief Kemi Nelson warned party members about the danger of underrating the opposition in Lagos State in next year’s governorship election. Nelson, the Yeyesewa of Lagos, thanked Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for returning the party to its members, urging Sanwo-Olu to build in the tradition after his victory at the poll. She also advised him to protect the interest of women, saying that they usually toil and labour for the victory of the party at the polls. Peeping into 2019, Nelson said: “We should not underrate the opposition. We should carry all the people along. We should mobilise well for the poll.” Also, Lagos West APC leader Prince Rabiu Oluwa called for unity and understanding among party leaders and members to avoid the repeat of the electoral defeat in some federal constituencies in 2015. The party elder recalled that Lagos APC lost some Houses of Assembly and Representatives seats due to unresolved post-primary crises that hit the platform. While Nelson charged the party faithful to gird their loins and work hard for victory, Oluwa, a member of the Governorship Advisory Council (GAC), said the party should go into the polls as a united fold. Reflecting on the challenges triggered by the politics of nominations, the flag bearer waved an olive branch, promising to meet all aggrieved aspirants and incorporate them into his campaign structures. Sanwo-Olu said: “All our former aspirants who were not successful at the House of Assembly, House of Representatives and even senatorial primaries; we must reach out to them so that they will not harbour bitterness and a sense of injustice. We will meet them individually and collectively. They have their followers. They must remain in the party. It is not just we versus them or them versus we. We own the party and state together.” The flag bearer also acknowledged that much work has to be done to retain power, urging the political family to prepare for the task ahead. He said: “Work has just started. The work is not for APC alone. It is for all Lagosians. We have to tell our church members, customers in markets, neighbours, our friends. Let us unite as we forge ahead in the election.” Sanwo-Olu promised to preside over a “listening government” that will be guided by need analysis, feedback from people on government activities and constant consultations with stakeholders. He added: “We must resolve to beat our opponents from other parties at the polls. We need to embark on door-to-door campaigns, which will be effective. It is time to roll up our sleeves. It is time not to take anybody for granted. We are one big family. We want to ly a good foundation for the future of our children. “We must appeal to aggrieved aspirants who lost out in the primaries. They should not leave the party. I will hold meetings with them to reassure them that accommodation will be found for them in the larger and collective interest of our party.” Shedding light on his promise to set up an all-inclusive government, Sanwo-Olu said: “We must reach out to all our followers and supporters at the grassroots, and other Lagosians who do not have access to the governor. There is poverty in the land. We must make life better for them. That is what good governance is about; government of the people, by the people and for the people.” He added: “We will spread the dividends of democracy to reach all and sundry. No one will be left behind and none will be forgotten. We at the APC family will be busy between now and the end of the year. It is going to be your government. It will be participatory. We will always feel your pulse. We will not promise and fail. We will deliver the greatest good to the greatest number of our people” Finnih said: Sanwo-Olu is for the development of Lagos. All of us are behind you. God is also behind you. The voice of the people is the voice of God.” Ajomale congratulated Sanwo-Olu and promised that the people of Osodi/Isolo Constituency will vote for him at the poll. He added: “Since 1998, we have never lost Lagos. We will not lose Lagos in 2019. We were in the cabinet together. He (Sanwo-Olu) is a responsible person. Lagos West is the largest district and we will always deliver the highest number of votes in the country. We have Alimoso, Ikeja, Agege, Badagry, Mushin, Osodi. Osodi will deliver the highest votes. Lagos West has never disappointd APC. We will not disappoint Sanwo-Olu.” Ayinde said the Sanwo-Olu/Hamzat ticket was gathering momentum, nothing that 1,000 people have voluntarily enlisted in the campaign team. He said: “Our incoming governor has come to simply say thank you. Because of the exigency of time, our in-coming governor was not able to visit all the leaders of the districts. His humility, friendliness and passion for the development of Lagos have advertised him. Because of that, a lot of people have voluntarily joined the campaign team. We now have 1,000 members in Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu campaign Organidation (BOSCO).” Urging Sanwo-Olu to forge ahead with excitement and optimism, he added: “Our people are behind you. Our leaders in the district are behind you. We will not fail you. We will deliver you. By May 2019, you will be the governor of Lagos State. “ 