AS celebrities, politicians, comedians and corporate executives filled up the Eko Convention Centre for the Shuga Coated Concert which held last Sunday October 21, 2018, there was no doubting the diverse fan base of Akiin Shuga-led Shuga Band which was celebrating its 20th anniversary Whereas mainstream artistes most times find it hard to get the audience going and clapping at such a show, it was different for the Shuga Band, as each performance was a hit back-to-back with audience on their feet, at the seamless event. It was an unusual atmosphere; from the choreography, to costume, and music, the creative interpretation and precision was next to none. Some of the highlights of the event were performances by top acts like Small Doctor, Mayorkun, Damola, Tosin Martins, Koffi, Funnybone, Tee A, Bolanle Olukanni, Toyin Abraham and Dayo Amusa. Among the top dignitaries at the event was the wife of former Governor of Lagos State, Dame Abimbola Fashola,  Dr. Biodun Laja, Rtd. AIG Alapinni, Lady Maiden Ibru, Otunba Bimbo Ashiru, Hon.Bukola Olopade (Ozogula), and Mrs. Kemi Nelson. The scripted concert started to time with nothing short of stellar performances. In fact, some guests who came late, expecting to see the norm of lateness, were surprised the show started on time. The show climaxed with the emotional ‘I Can walk’ performance that also featured Adenike Oyetunde and Beulah Chigbu as they joined Akiin Shuga on stage to reinforce there is ability in disability. The song is one of the inspiring tracks released by Akiin Shuga earlier in the year and also in the latest Shuga Coated Album. It was produced by Cobhams Asuquo. The helmsman of the band, Akiin Shuga, delivered a heartrending vote of thanks and appreciation to everyone in the hall while promising to continually deliver on his craft. “This is surreal for me and every member of this band. This whole crowd came to see us perform. We made history and we are extremely grateful to you for coming. To all the people who have consistently stood by us for these past 20 years, thank you. To all the couples who have had us as the preferred live band at their weddings, we are grateful. You all have shown us that it is possible to dream and achieve your dreams regardless of any challenges.  One thing I can promise you is that this is just the beginning for us. You have not seen anything yet. If you think we are great, we are about to be greater for the trust you have reposed in us, we will reciprocate with nothing short of excellence and quality service,” he expressed heartily.