The police in Lagos have arrested a 30-year-old mechanic, Femi Peter, alias Baba Pamilerin, for alleged defilement of his stepdaughters. Peter, also a commercial bus driver, was alleged to have been raping the girls aged 13 and 15 for about four years. The Nation learnt that the suspect, a resident of 27, Seriki Compound, Bariga, Lagos was nabbed after the Child Protection Network (CPN) was alerted by a neighbour. It was gathered that the victims had complained about their mother’s alleged nonchalance to a neighbour, who reported to the child’s rights group. “Although the suspect initially fled, he was arrested on September 26 by policemen attached to Bariga Division,” said CPN’s Coordinator, Ebenezer Omejelale. He went on: “Peter actually defiled his three stepdaughters. When the eldest could no longer endure the abuse, she fled home. Their mother, instead of reporting the abuse, covered her husband. “So, when we learnt of the matter, we informed the police and went to the house, but the suspect had fled. The victims were kept in a protective custody. “CPN Somolu Coordinator, Toyin Okanlawon, lodged a complaint at the Bariga Police Station. The girls also went to the station to report. “The accused was placed on surveillance for weeks. As soon as we got information that he was back in the community, we went after him with the police and arrested him. “He was nabbed on September 26 and transferred to the Gender Unit. He was interrogated and he claimed he only assisted the girls in their studies because of their lazy attitude. “We found out that he has been sexually abusing the girls for about four years. His wife is nursing a five-month-old baby and has another two-year-old daughter for him. She was at the police station during the interrogation. “She was reprimanded by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) for her negligence towards her daughters. The girls told the police that a neighbour, Emmanuel, advised them not to report the sexual abuse to the police.” Omejelale said the suspect was yesterday arraigned at an Ogba Magistrates’ Court, Lagos, adding that they were being taken care of in the protective custody. “The police were amazed when they saw the girls looking very healthy, clean and fresh. It shows they are being taken care of, compared to their appearance when they first came to the station. “The girls want justice. We will not rest until they get justice.” 