Over 400 employees who sustained permanent disability from work place have all been placed on monthly allowance by the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), irrespective of the medical bills footed by the scheme. Its Managing Director/CEO, Adebayo Somefun who spoke  at the NSITF-Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) SWIP 2017 South West Integrative Forum and Awards Ceremony in Lagos, said fore limbs and hind limbs were provided for 400 persons. He said 298 families have been compensated for the death of their family members, adding that these families are also placed on monthly allowance. He said: “Basically, the objective of the provision of health care service providers is to provide non-cash services to the injured employees, such as medical, surgical, hospitals, nursing, medicines,  and others. “The Fund has been providing artificial limbs/members.  From inception of the Fund to when this administration assumed duties, it had provided for only 12, but this administration has improved upon the achievements by paying for 42, bringing the total to 54.  Some of the beneficiaries are available here today to testify to the Fund’s responsiveness in this regard.” Somefun said to treat injuries to the parts of the body that are authorised to     be treated under the Medical and Dental Practitioners Act (or any other relevant Law) that permits such practice was part of the objectives of the scheme. According to him, some of the objectives of the scheme are; to give all reasonable and necessary information, advice and assistance to injured employee as may be required; to engage the services of relevant specialist where such is not readily available in-house subject to the approval of the Fund; to work in conjunction with the Fund and other relevant stakeholders to set up, review and to carry out other activities necessary for a Standard Medical Tariff (SMT) pursuant to  achieving the objectives of this engagement amongst others. The Director General, NECA, Mr Timothy Olawale said the group has effectively served as a veritable support pillar  to the Fund to deliver on its mandate to  members as vanguard of employers’ interest and as contributors to the fund. He said: “Also, we have provided the platform over the years for the Fund and employers to interact and resolve arising issues in the course of the implementation of the ECA 2010. The objective of which is to ensure that we are all happy and united in the path of advancing our mutual cause that we have to thread together. “Let me commend the management of the NSITF under the leadership of Barr Adebayo Somefun for keying into the laudable partnership that he met on ground and improving on it. We also commend the open door policy of management and their receptiveness of ideas and opinions that enhances their effective delivery of service.” In his presentation, Regional Human Resource Coordinator, Mediterranean Shipping Company, Chuma Nwankwo, said an employee shall be entitled to compensation for mental stress not resulting from an injury for which the employee is otherwise entitled to compensation, only if the mental stress is an acute reaction to a sudden and unexpected traumatic event arising out of or in the course of the employee’s employment. He added that an employee is entitled to payment of compensation with respect to any accident sustained while on the way between the place of work and the employee’s principal or secondary residence. 