The management of Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) says it will give 100 free prepaid meters to customers during the Customers’ Service Week. The General Manager, Corporate Communications, Mr. Godwin Idemudia, said yesterday that the gesture was aimed at ensuring 100 per cent customer satisfaction. Idemudia, in a statement in Lagos, said the EKEDC management decided that customers who paid their bills to date would have free meters through a raffle draw. “Please note that meters will be given to the 10 lucky customers per district. The customers must be regular in paying with zero outstanding. “The customers must have no record of energy theft and have no record of hostility towards our workers,” he added. Idemudia said the EKEDC’s district and commercial managers were required to send 20 names of customers that fell under the categories before noon today. “A raffle draw will be done for 20 customers per district, while only 10 customers will qualify.” The spokesman said the company was rated high in metering and billing efficiency in the 2018 first quarter report of the National Electricity Regulation Commission. He said the firm was rated the lowest in terms of aggregate technical and consumer loss, adding that newly-acquired smart meters would be rolled out soon. Idemudia said the EKEDC was doing its best to ensure effective delivery despite constant pipeline vandalism, which had affected power generation and resulted in transmission constraints. He said other challenges included by-passing of electricity, energy theft and stealing of cables. Idemudia said the company’s Customer Service Week, which has begun, with the theme: “Experience Happens Here”- will afford customers the opportunity to have their complaints addressed. The six-day programme will include feeding of 500 people in poor communities within its franchise areas and creating awareness on the importance of the Customer Service Week. Others are distribution of free meters and random calls to customers, thanking them for their patronage as well as celebrating officials that meet or exceed targets. Idemudia urged customers to always use medium of communication on the social media to get their complaints addressed.