Operatives of Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit (task force) have nabbed 62 suspected miscreants in Oshodi and its environs. The arrests were made during an overnight raid. Eighteen street traders were apprehended at Trade Fair complex. The agency Chairman, Mr. Olayinka Egbeyemi, a Chief Superintendent of Police, said the raid was part of efforts to rid Lagos State of criminals. He said no weapon was found on the suspects, adding that there were indications that they were part of the criminals that had been terrorising the area, particularly those who attacked motorists on Oshodi bridge during peak hours. “We got to the area about 2am and found hoodlums under Oshodi bridge loitering. Some were caught smoking Indian hemp. “Many of the miscreants have tattoos on their arms, showing they belong to cults. They rob residents and pedestrians of their valuables such as phones, wallets and jewellery early in the morning and late at night,” Egbeyemi said. He said the suspects were screened and the underage ones were referred to the juvenile homes for rehabilitation, adding that most of them were products of broken homes. The chairman said after the completion of projects by the government at Oshodi, there would no longer be hideout for criminals to attack people. He noted that Governor Akinwunmi Ambode was committed to protecting lives and property, to attract investors and make life easy for residents. Appealing to parents to consider that their children would be at the receiving end after disputes, Egbeyemi  said the suspects had been arraigned on the directive of Police Commissioner Edgal Imohimi. One of the miscreants, Gani Yusuf, 35, said he paid N100 everyday to their leader before being allowed to sleep under the bridge. Another suspect, Gbenga Ololade, 38, said he came from Ibadan and had been sleeping under the bridge in the last three years. Five of the 18 street traders arrested near Trade Fair complex had been arraigned and fined N5000 each. The remaining 13 female traders were committed to 48-hour community service each, as a punishment. The 18 culprits, who were initially released, based on a written undertaking with the agency not to sell at unauthorised places near the complex, were re-arrested and arraigned for flouting the agreement. Egbeyemi said the agency acted on the directives of the police commissioner, who expressed concern about the spate of crimes in parts of the state, especially Oshodi, Mushin, Fadeyi, Agege, Apapa, Lagos Island, Obalende, Oyingbo, Dopemu, among others.