I grew up at a time of academic vibrancy; this was an era when some of the best known critics of military rule were academics. During the robust International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank (WB) debate on the Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) of the General Ibrahim Babangida regime in the 1980s, our scholars were at the forefront providing alternatives to the regime’s “no alternative to SAP.” They used all available means to get their messages across by providing credible alternatives on how to jumpstart the economy. Newspapers were filled with incisive articles, position papers, seminar reports, communiques etc highlighting what need to be done. Both scholars from the right and left freely aired their views and opinions. If you’re part of my generation you’ll definitely question why our varsities are quiet at a time solutions are urgently needed for the myriad of problems confronting our society; what went wrong? Why the graveyard silence from our academics on critical issues of national concern? Even the once fiery and articulate Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) is somewhat silent these days. If – in the past – you’ve read communiques from ASUU meetings on national issues you’ll appreciate the point I’m trying to pass across. Sadly, we only get to hear them now when reminding the government it is reneging on agreements reached with the union and to put government on notice that they would soon proceed on strike. In the past, there was no way you can silence the likes of late Prof Eskor Toyo, the highly revered University of Calabar Marxist economist. Same with the late Dr. Yusuf Bala Usman, a world class historian from ABU, late Prof Claude Ake, a notable political economist from UNIPORT, late Prof JF Ade Ajayi, Prof Bade Onimode, another Marxist economist and a host of other fiery scholars. Their grasps of issues are almost incontrovertible. Picking up some of their works any day will show you our problems did not start today. But they never remained silent. Some works – like some of the late Eskor Toyo I came across – were hand written because of inability to publish! Now that socio-economic life is wobbling, our ivory towers are as silent as the graveyard. I’m concerned because we live in a rapidly changing world and it appears our varsities are being left behind – some say we have already been left behind. Over the past couple of decades, ‘globalisation’ and the emergence of the ‘knowledge economy’ have given rise to new economic, social, political and cultural challenges to which nations, regions and higher education systems and institutions are responding. It is widely assumed that in the context of these new challenges specific knowledge, competencies and skills – often referred to as ‘human capital’ – come to play an increasingly important role in developmental efforts, as do research, innovation and technological development. Knowledge production, accumulation, transfer and application have become major factors in socio-economic development and are increasingly at the core of national development strategies of serious nations for gaining competitive advantages in the global knowledge economy. Universities are expected to be playing a key role in delivering the knowledge requirements for development. Research has – for example – suggested a strong nexus between higher education participation rates and levels of development. While the higher education participation rates in many high-income countries are well over 50%, in sub-Saharan Africa they are in most cases below 5%. Furthermore, there is increasing evidence that high levels of education in general – and of higher education in particular – are essential for the design and productive use of new technologies, while they also provide the foundations for a nation’s innovative capacity, and contribute more than any other social institution to the development of civil society. Nations like India and China are aware of this. It is not by accident that the Chinese and Indian economies have displayed unprecedented levels of sustained growth since the early 1990s. China embarked on a knowledge-based growth track by attracting massive foreign direct investment and then building indigenous knowledge capacity through huge investments in education and research. India has succeeded by making the best use of its elite education institutions and exploiting international information technology-related opportunities, in part through the deft use of knowledge assets. Why the emphasis on varsities we may ask? A bit of perspective is needed here to give us a bird’s eye view. Following independence, universities in Nigeria – and Africa generally – were expected to be key contributors to the human resource needs. There was a particular focus on the development of human resources for the civil service and the public professions. This was to address the acute shortages in these areas that were the result of the gross underdevelopment of universities under colonialism, and the departure of colonial administrators and professionals following independence. The importance of the university was further underscored by the now-famous ‘Accra declaration’ that all universities must be ‘development universities.’ It was agreed that this was such an important task that the university could not be left to academics alone; it was also the responsibility of governments to steer universities in the development direction. Despite the rhetoric about the ‘development university,’ almost all African governments did little to promote the development role of universities. In part this was because many of these governments had not developed a coherent development model. In addition, many had become increasingly embroiled in internal power struggles, and the external politics of the Cold War and funding agencies such as the World Bank. The new normal was interference by government, rather than steering varsities. This was compounded as Nigeria and most African countries witnessed series of military coups and counter coups. Universities became sites of contestation – partially around the development model, and partially around lack of delivery, which included inadequate funding for the institutions. And what was the result? Governments, other stakeholders and academics became sceptical, if not suspicious, of the university’s role in national development. This led to a notion that higher education was a ‘luxury ancillary’ – nice to have, but not necessary. Thus, it was “difficult” to see what contribution universities were making to development; in part, because of prolonged economic crises and the high costs associated with higher education. The World Bank did not help matters when it came out with its infamous ‘rate of return to investments in education’ study. It concluded that development efforts in Africa should be refocused to concentrate on primary education! This clearly became evident in the dramatic decreases in per capita spending on higher education in Africa: Unlike the approach in China and India emphasising higher education and primary and secondary education simultaneously in their development strategies, the World Bank strategy in Africa delinked universities from development. In addition, it led to development policies that had negative consequences for African nations and their sustainable development potential. Neglect of higher education led to the disestablishment of research centres, medical schools, agricultural centres, telecommunication and technological development, business training centres, vocational schools and other areas in the higher education sector, which are critical to the development of African societies and their economies. However, during the 1990s and early 2000s, some influential voices started calling for the revitalisation of the African university and for linking higher education to development. The World Bank itself, influenced by Prof Manuel Castells’ path-breaking paper, ‘The University System: Engine of development in the new world economy,’ made a detour and started embracing the role of higher education in the knowledge economy and for development  in the developing world. To this end, it sponsored a study on ‘Higher Education and Economic Development in Africa’ by Harvard University scholars David Bloom, David Canning, and Kevin Chan. They challenged the belief that tertiary education has little role in promoting economic growth. To them, investing in tertiary education may accelerate technological diffusion, which would decrease knowledge gaps and help reduce poverty in the region. It’s time for our academics to wake up and break the graveyard silence.