A leading online real estate and property technology company, PropertyPro.ng has concluded plans to stage the 2018 edition of the Lagos Home and Property Festival holding on the 8th and 9th of December, 2018 at the Muri-Okunola Park, Victoria Island, Lagos. The 2018 edition of the Lagos Home & Property Festival is the 3rd edition of the largest trade show in Africa to provide Homes & Properties solutions in Nigeria, with the first two editions which held in the mainland and the Victoria Island of Lagos state, Nigeria respectively. The Chief Executive Officer of PropertyPro.ng, Fikayo Ogundipe announced this at a press conference organised over the week at Maison Fahrenheit Hotel, Lagos. He said that the Lagos Home and Property Festival is the B2B & B2C platform for Real Estate developers, manufacturers & distributors of home furniture, home fittings, building materials and home appliances to meet with over 5,000 home buyers, real estate inventors, high net-worth individuals, real estate agents and individuals in need of new options for lands, homes, home fittings, building materials, home electronics and gadgets. He added that the festival is structured to accommodate audiences from the two major regional locations in Lagos (the mainland and the island), while specifically selecting the ideal venue to accommodate all the participants at the event. Ogundipe noted that the venue which has a capacity to host over 100 exhibitors, guru sessions and VIP lounges; ensures that the need to showcase the availability of high quality, genuine real estate developments, as well home fittings, home essentials and building materials to the large population of Lagosians is met. He stated further that the event is structured to deliver three major highlights to meet the large population of buyers and participants. He said that there will be VIP Lounges that will cater for relaxation and VIP Experiences. Guru sessions- These are classes and presentations are divided into segments- Culinary Sessions, How to make money in Real Estate, D-I-Y Furniture Making and How to grow your business. He continued: online expo will provided an opportunity for exhibitors and sponsors to showcase their top five best product deals and for attendees to in turn grab deals ranging from deals in estates, lands, home furniture & fittings, home appliances, building materials, home automation and gadgets. Ogundipe advised participants and exhibitors to register on time so that they can get their coupons. “This begins on the 1st of November with registration and coupons for buyers via the event’s website www.propertypro.ng/expo.