Lagos will come alive on Friday when the rematch between Chomunorwa ‘Sting’ Gondarenda and Tony ‘Sugar’ Salam for Gondarenda’s WBF Africa Cruiserweight title takes place at the Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island. The Friday Fight Night dubbed ‘Chaos in Lagos’ will be brought to fans by Kwesé in partnership with Kalakoda Boxing Promotions. Nigerian sports fans wanting to tune-in for all the live action will be spoilt for viewing options, thanks to Kwesé’s multiplatform broadcasting approach. Kwesé will provide full broadcast coverage of the event through satellite TV on channel 285 on the Kwesé TV bouquet, the Kwesé TV app linked to an active pay TV subscription, or Kwesé Free Sports UHF channel 32, as well as the Kwesé iflix mobile app. For viewers outside Nigeria, Kwesé has signed sublicense agreements with various free-to-air (FTA) broadcasters across the continent, to ensure millions of viewers across the continent can enjoy free access to the fight wherever they are. The event will also be streamed on YouTube Live. Salam and Gondarenda fought in August to a disputed decision in Harare where Gondarenda retained his belt on a split decision. Immediately after the fight Gondarenda said that he would fight Salam again, “any time any place,” this time it will be in Salam’s backyard with neutral judges agreed by both camps. The fight is a contrast of styles with Gondarenda the come forward fighter, and Salam the slick counter puncher, fighting often on the back foot. Salam will need to be more definitive in his approach, he clearly landed the cleaner blows, but it was the Zimbabwean champion’s relentless aggression and ring control that perhaps swayed the judges during their first match up. The remainder of the bill features some of Nigeria’s and West Africa’s top boxers who frequently fight in the USA and Europe, and provides the opportunity to show off their skills in front of home fans. Kalakoda Promotions partnership with LPMG Management and Don King Productions have made such fighters available for the occasion, with a long-term view of unleashing the untapped potential of Nigeria and Lagos as a fight destination.