•Visionscape disowned Lagos State House of Assembly has ordered the 20 local governments and 37 local council development areas (LCDAs) to call on the Private Sector Partnership (PSP) operators to go back to refuse packing. Speaker Mudashiru Obasa gave the directive yesterday at plenary. He directed the Clerk, Mr. Azeez Sanni, to invite the Commissioner for the Environment, Babatunde Durosinmi-Etti, to appear before the House on the matter next week. The directive followed a matter of urgent public importance raised by Gbolahan Yishawu (Eti-Osa 1), who complained of heaps of refuse all over the state. He said there were heaps of refuse on Lagos roads. Yishawu said: “Some refuse are taken to Epe and Ikorodu, but it is a bit far now, as 300 instead of 800 trucks now dispose refuse. “We used to dump the refuse at Olusosun, but the place was gutted by fire. We can give the place to companies. “The sanitary land fill in Epe is not being utilised and the transfer loading stations too are not working. The turnaround time of packing the refuse is not being utilised. “It is not all the PSP operators that are working. May be we can recall the PSP operators and reopen Olusosun. The land fill sites should be operated properly.” Obasa said the government does not know anything about Visionscape. He said there are three arms of the government – the legislature, executive and judiciary, adding that the government ought to have consulted the House on Visionscape before they started operation. “We insist that we don’t know anything about Visionscape because we were not consulted before they started work. “We once wrote the Commissioner for Finance, Akinyemi Ashade, not to pay Visionscape again, saying he would return any money he paid to them after our instruction, to the government’s coffers. We will go to that when the time comes, but we have to do the needful now. “We are calling on the 20 local governments and 37 LCDAs to meet the PSP operators, in order for them to go back to work. They should start paying them and make the residents to pay the operators. We have to avoid epidemic and be proactive,” Obasa said. He warned those stopping people from dumping refuse at the dumpsites to desist, saying he saw a lot of refuse trucks in a bad condition and that some of them have been abandoned. The Speaker said the House ought to have approved the new refuse disposal policy of the government before Visionscape started work. “We are inviting the commissioner for the Environment to report to us within one week. The Clerk should write the local governments and LCDAs to do the needful. The commissioner for the Environment should work on this and report to us in a week,” he said.