Workers in the local government areas in Anambra State have started counting their blessings thanks to the initiative of the state Civil Service Commission. They are no longer dependent on the salaries paid them, as the Commission has directed civil servants to show their productivity in skills in the 21 local government areas in the state The Commission’s chairman, Dr Peter Egenti, while addressing the local government staff at the Commission’s headquarters in Awka, the state capital, said the idea was to raise the Internally Generated Revenue of the state and to remove despondency in them To boot, the commission also organised an exhibition of items made by the local government staff. During the exhibition by three local government areas, Njikoka, Oyi and Orumba North, many items were displayed by the workers which were generating money in those council areas. Such items included, moi moi or bean pudding, Vitamin A garri, Chin Chin from cassava, palm oil, sandals, while others had ventured into mass transit business. Egenti, said such initiative was introduced to change the attitude of workers in terms of indiscipline, adding that they should not see it as competition, rather, as a way of improving the IGR of the councils and the state. “These are ideas that will improve the system and that is why we said no to the idea of scrapping the local government system in Nigeria, this is the ingenuity of Anambra Civil Service Commission and other states can replicate it,” Egenti said Speaking with The Nation, the State Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress NLC, Jerry Nnubia said the system has really changed the attitude of workers in local government areas. For Charles Nweke, Head of Department, Agriculture, Oyi Local Government Area, the initiative by the Commission has helped in tackling the economic meltdown in the system. Also, Chike Obuekwe, head in Orumba North council area, said the programme would help in building a virile third tier government in local government areas in the state. Two of the staff from two of the local government areas, Mrs Christiana Mocha and Anthonia Eboh, said the programmes had steadied the ship in the local government system in the state. They told The Nation that they make money from the different items they produce in their local government areas to take care of the needs in the councils without looking at the allocations. Not only that, because the salary is small, they replicate what they had learnt in their work place at their different homes to take care of their homes.