The girl-child is a bundle of talents that should be supported by all stakeholders to move the nation forward. This was the submission last week at a gathering of over 2,000 girls that attracted civil society leaders, corporate partners, government agencies and diplomatic mission officials. It was at an event organised by HACEY Health Initiative with major support from Access Bank Nig Ltd. Director Gender Development Programme HACEY, Ms. Rhoda Robinson, said the major challenge of a Nigerian girl child was access to quality education and gender inequality in Nigeria. She explained: “The key to girls’ empowerment is to enable access to quality and continuous education, end violence and discrimination against women and girls.” While stating other societal issues that are detrimental of the girl child, Robinson urged parents and guardians to stop the harmful practice of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM). Founder of Mothers’ Delivery Kit Adepeju Jaiyeoba called on government and corporate organisation to review the gender ratio of employment to give room for the females to make better contributions in all sectors of the country. “There should be a source of inspiration for females to want to do more. Look at the difference in government. Women are behind, even in private organisations. You see people who still believe a woman should not head in government or organisation.” She expressed optimism that “things are getting better than what they used to be before. More women are challenging in the private sector. “But, I believe it will improve if the set of women doing Nigeria proud do not give up.” The representative of John Hopkins University centre for communication programme, Edun Omasanjuwa said the significance of the day was to “task ourselves that female children have a lot to give back to the society.” Head of Sustainability Access Bank Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan said the girl-child should never be underrated under any guise. “They are exceptionally talented and we should do all we can as an individual, corporate organisation and society to make them become all they should be,” she stated. 