The lawmaker representing Rivers Southeast, Senator Magnus Abe, has said he is the authentic governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC). But a chieftain of APC in Rivers, Chief Chukwuemeka Eze, faulted Abe and warned against compensating Abe’s rebellion with a senatorial ticket. Last Sunday, Abe was declared winner of the governorship direct primary election organised by his faction in the 319 wards of the 23 councils, which was coordinated by its Acting Chairman, Prince Peter Odike, a former deputy chairman of Rivers APC. The ruling APC’s NWC and the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC’s)-backed indirect governorship primary in Port Harcourt on Sunday, was won by the co-founder of Sahara Group, Tonye Cole. Abe’s spokesman Parry Benson said: “Senator Magnus Abe remains the governorship candidate of the APC in Rivers State, following the mandate freely given to him by members of the APC during last Sunday’s governorship primary election in the state. “The one thing presently occupying the mind of Distinguished Senator Abe is to actualise his ambition as governor of Rivers State, through a peaceful, acceptable and constitutional means in 2019, in order to deliver democratic dividends to Rivers people and transform the state into an enviable haven of industrialisation and attract real investments.” In his Twitter handle yesterday morning, Abe said: “I bought the form for governor, and I am running for the office of governor. Relax, ladies and gentlemen, keep faith and work hard. Our struggle has just begun and our day of glory shall surely come.” Eze, however, asked the national leadership and Rivers state chapter not to send a wrong signal to members by embarking on any act that could destroy the principles on which the party was set up, through giving Abe the senatorial ticket. He said: “Compensating Abe with APC’s senatorial ticket and denying the legitimate aspiration of a loyal party leader like Amb. Oji Ngofa will not only be suicidal, but sending the message that rebelling against the party’s authorities will ultimately be compensated with juicy rewards. It will also escalate the crisis within the party. “Abe earlier attempted to lure me into his project of tearing down the influence of the Minister for Transportation, but I rejected it, to avoid sabotaging Rivers APC. I advised him not to venture into such an ungodly act that might nail his political career, but he went ahead and today he has lost his political relevance in Rivers State. “The senator (Abe) is not only a personal friend, but a brother very dear to my heart and family. I have nothing against any aspiration that he intends to pursue, but I will not support any of his acts that will be detrimental to the collective aspiration of APC in Rivers State.” The APC chieftain urged politicians to always avoid acts that portray them as traitors, ingrates, inhuman and heartless. 