New Super Eagles recruit, Kelechi Nwakali tells MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN about his fond relationship with legendary Nwankwo Kanu as well as his yet to be fulfilled dreams. Enjoy… Arsenal legend Nwankwo Kanu has yet been praised for his stirring roles in shaping the career  of many youngsters even as  youngster Kelechi Nwakali poured encomiums on the erstwhile captain of the Super Eagles for being his father-figure “I must thank Nwankwo Kanu for being like a father to me all this while,” Nwakali who celebrated his 20th anniversary on  5th June, told The Nation. “He calls me almost every day; telling me what I needed to do in order to improve my game. “He’s always reminding me about being  disciplined and dedicated to the game. He’s more than a brother; I really appreciate all his contributions so far towards my success as a professional footballer.” Three years ago, Nwakali was the cynosure of all eyes when he led the Golden Eaglets to win a record fifth title at the FIFA U-17 World Cup  Chile 2015 and was personally rewarded with the Golden Ball Award  as the overall best player of the tournament. It was on the strength of  his performance in Chile that he was immediately  snapped up by English Premier League side, Arsenal  on a five-year deal. He was later sent to MVV Maastricht and VVV Venlo  to gain valuable experience in the Dutch league  from where he signed on a season-long loan deal with FC Porto in the Summer. “I really thank God that I have been given the opportunity to come down to FC Porto and I want to continue to work hard in order to fulfil my dream as professional footballer ,” he explained.“ But I really want to  thank Mikel Agu who has helped me to settle down well in Porto;  he has done more than a friend and I really appreciate all his efforts  so far since I  arrived in Portugal.” According to Nwakali, Porto is not yet his final destination  with his eyes still firmly focussed on turning out for his parent club at the Emirates in the foreseeable future. He offered:  “I had good experience playing in Holland because I had the opportunities  of playing in different positions but It is still my dream to play for Arsenal. “I believe doing well with FC Porto and  playing for Super Eagles would on the long run, help  in getting the opportunity to play for Arsenal   in the future.” The romance between Arsenal and Nwakali seemed to have been made in heaven and the lad is never tired speaking enthusiastically about his love for his adorable Gunners. “From a young age, I’ve dreamt of playing for Arsenal,” Nwakali  enthused  in a file interview with our correspondent. “I think God made it easy for me to join them  because that has been my dream team. “It is true that everybody thought that I would join Manchester City because of my brother (Chidiebere Nwakali) but I have always admired Arsenal; I have always loved Arsenal; they have always been my dream team. “Since my tender age, I have always admired them; and watching clips of players like Thierry Henry, Patrick Viera, Kanu Nwankwo and others  made me to love the club even more. “(Nwankwo) Kanu called me [after the U-17 World Cup] and said Arsenal wanted me; that the boss [Arsene Wenger] called him about me,” he told Goal. “He’s [Kanu] has been my mentor, a brother and a friend. He advised me to go and develop and prove who I am.” The erstwhile captain of Nigeria U-17 and U-20 youth teams, has overtime impressed   everyone with his smooth skills and he earned  further credits last  June with the Super Eagles B team in an exhibition match against visiting Atletico Madrid at the Uyo International Stadium where he scored a screamer to the delight of everyone. Yet he would be the first to admit that there is more work to be done in the days ahead: “Being regarded as one of the upcoming players in Nigeria is a sort of motivation for me. “I would do my best anytime I’m called upon to play for Nigeria because getting a call up to the Super Eagles is also a dream comes true for me; but it’s also a big challenge and it’s left to me to embrace this challenge. “It is not enough to  just  be  part of the team rather, I want to get the opportunity to play and represent Nigeria very well and I believe with hard work and humility,  I will achieve this dream.” Interestingly, the lad’s humble beginning is rooted at ASJ Academy in his native community in Eastern Nigeria but he has acquired more tricks as a loanee from Arsenal to MVV Maastricht and VVV Venlo in the Dutch Eredivisie. Armed with this savoir-faire, Nwakali said he was ready for greater responsibility with the Super Eagles: “Sincerely, I was not disappointed that I did not make the Super Eagles’ squad to the Russia 2018 World Cup because I believe I still have enough time to prove myself. “The Russia 2018 World Cup is gone; I’m ready to contribute my quota anytime I’m given the opportunity to play for the Super Eagles and I pray more of such opportunities will come as we fight for ticket to the 2019 AFCON. “It has always been my dream to be one of the top players in Nigeria and in the world.  With all concentration and discipline I can do it; it is an achievable dream. “I can follow the footsteps of others who had done that in the past and  I want to reassure Nigerians that I will always give my best whenever I’m called upon to play for the Super Eagles,” he reitreated as he speaks on sundry issues. On best career moments so far My best moment was captain the U-17 team to win the World Cup in Chile; you asked if it’s my dream to captain the Super Eagles? I will rather say  I will come to pass if it’s my destiny to captain the Super Eagles. I have been having good moments in my career; captaining the U-17; moving to Arsenal and lately being called into the Super Eagles  and all these have added value to my career and I’m very happy about the progression. On future dreams My other dreams that are yet  to materialized are many; I’m just starting my career and it’s like I have not started at all. One of my dreams is to be Nigeria’s greatest footballer and it’s not just saying it but to work for it. I believe with hard work and humility, I will achieve my dreams. On first official call up to the Super Eagles It’s  a great excitement for me to be called up to the Super Eagles; I felt so excited the same way I felt when we won the U-17 World Cup. It has always been my wish to see that any Nigerian team do well and I will be ready to contribute my quota to ensure that the Super Eagles qualify for the next Africa Cup of Nations in 2019 Words for adoring fans I want my fans to know that I love them because I get lots of encouraging messages from them  and sometimes I do get some critical messages too; but I want my fans to know that I’ll always do my best for the country and I will strive to make them proud; by the grace of God, everything  good will be achieved. On living in Europe Nigeria is not like Europe, so it’s a difficult place to survive. You have to work hard to get what you want. Both my mum and dad played important roles before I got to where I am today. I lost my dad in 2006. He was a big Arsenal fan, a diehard Arsenal fan and he and my mother contributed a lot, buying boots, jerseys and taking me to training.