Kano state Governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has emerged as the gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) after securing 2,740,847 votes at just concluded party’s governorship primaries held in the state. The result was officially announced by the Chief Returning Officer for the election, Mr Pius Odudu at the state party secretariat, after collating all the results forwarded by the 44 local governments where a direct primaries was adopted for the sole candidate. Ganduje, who expressed satisfaction with the election result, commended the peaceful conduct of the election and party members for exhibiting total solidarity for his return. “Our dear electorate have faith in what we are doing in our effort to strengthen democracy and sustain the developmental projects, programmes and policies,” However,in all the 484 wards across the 44 local governments of the state, the conduct of the exercise was peaceful and orderly. Accepting the result through his Deputy, Dr Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, Ganduje encouraged party members and other well meaning Nigerians to come out en mass and vote for President Buhari come 2019 election. “Our major concern, as being championed by our dear President Muhammadu Buhari, is to take Nigeria to the next levels of development. That is why we are replicating, at state levels, what President Buhari is championing,” he said. “We specifically chose to conduct direct primary election just to make the process more participatory, fairer, all-inclusive and to deliberately deepen our democratic practice. Where all will have sense of ownership for the betterment of our society.” He explained that the high number of APC card carrying members in the state was due to “massive awareness campaigns embarked by the  state government and the party prior to the primary elections period”. “What we promised to do during our 2015 electioneering campaigns, is what is precisely on ground. We promised to continue with the projects initiated by the past and previous administrations. To further consolidate the gains of the democratic rule, we also promised to initiate new projects and programmes. Promises that are being fulfilled,” he said. “Look at projects like Muhammadu Buhari Specialist Hospital, Giginyu and Sheik Khalifa Isyaka Rabi’u Specialist Hospital, Zoo Road.Those were gigantic projects left behind. But we thought they must be completed. We have achieved that feat,”