Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal and former Kaduna State Governor Ahmed Makarfi have pledged full support for Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar. Tambuwal and Makarfi lost at the presidential primary in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. They gave their commitment yesterday when Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson led two other PDP governors to their Abuja homes. Dickson told reportersafter the meeting tha Tambuwal stressed the need for the PDP to remain a strong united party adding that the emphasis should be on the country and not on his personal ambition. Tambuwal who observed that the country was being run by proxy said the country needed a president who would deliver effective governance. Makarfi said although the 12 aspirants went into the primary election as contestants, the emergence of one of them was a collective victory for party. Makarfi said he had a long-standing political relationship with Atiku spanning many years and that it was too late in the day for him to jettison that relationship over presidential primaries. He predicted a resounding victory for the PDP in the 2019 elections Dickson together with Governors Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta) and Darius Ishaku (Taraba) hailed Tambuwal and Makarfi for their understanding and spirit of sportsmanship. Dickson who heads the Standing Committee on Reconciliation of the PDP, said the party had commenced series of consultative talks with other categories of aspirants and leaders of the party so as to present a united front. Dickson said: “I am leading a team of the committee of governors to interact and compare notes with our brothers, Governor Aminu Tambuwal and Senator Ahmed Makarfi. “They ran a great race and we are all proud of what they did and what they continue to do. We appreciate their statesmanship, we appreciate the way and manner they have been of help in consolidating the gains the party is making. “This is just the beginning of several interactions formally and informally that we are going to have with them and with several other leaders of our party. “As you all know, they are very key players in the unfolding political scenario and we are all committed to reclaiming our country and building a new Nigeria”. Dickson stressed the need for leaders of the PDP to close ranks and to hold regular talks as opposition politicians to reposition the PDP for electoral victory.