The Auditor-General of the Federation, Mr. Anthony Ayine, has identified the non-implementation of audit recommendations as a major challenge to good governance and winning the noble fight against corruption and pervasive malfeasance in the public sector. Mr. Ayine, made this known in his keynote address on Tuesday at the 48th bi-annual conference of the body of federal and state Auditors-General in Abuja. According to him, “The work of the auditor is to produce or come up with report. The next level is for the National Assembly to discuss these reports and take action. “What have been happening in the past is that people are not aware of the work of the auditors. “We are emphasizing about the issues of audit recommendations. When you make recommendations, and the recommendations are not implemented, then it will be difficult for our impact to be felt. “There are recommendations that should produce deterrent actions, but once not implemented, nobody will know the work of the auditor. This is one of the areas where we are also trying to enlighten the public. “We are working with public account committees, not only at the federal level, but also at the state level to ensure implementation. We are looking at best practices in other climes. “We also work closely with the executive arm. We are also taking steps to engage Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of government to appreciate the fact that audit recommendations are for their own good; once implemented, they will bring improvement in the system.” The auditor-general therefore urged government at all levels to ensure the implementation of audit recommendations as this would not only block leakages, but also engender accountability, transparency and effectiveness of our economy. In line with the theme of the conference: “The role of supreme audit institutions in value creation”, Mr. Ayine urged states auditors-general on the need to create and add value even as they examine the financial activities of state actors and comment on their performances. According to him, “Quite often, some will give reasons why despite the existence of Audit offices across the three tiers, governance has been so weak across Nigeria. Reasons usually given include poor pay of the Auditors, lack of resources, lack of political will to do the right thing, etc. “These reasons may be valid and may have an impact on the ability of each audit office to function, but, there is also a responsibility on all of us to be able to show some value no matter how small the level of resources, or no matter how low the level of political will to do the right thing.” He encouraged the auditors to be innovative even as they carry out their very important roles of auditing in clear and well articulated findings and recommendations that would bring about growth and development in the polity. The Chairman, Body of Federal and State Auditors-General, Alhaji Abdu Usman Aliyu, urged participating auditors to be above board in their business and commercial relations. According to him, “This conference will not only facilitate knowledge sharing, improve quality performance and update your technical kills but also satisfy the conditions required to keep abreast with assigned responsibilities.”