The Kogi State Government has approved the upgrading of Eighty-eight traditional rulers. The special Adviser to the Governor on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Alhaji Abubakar Ohere, in a release on Friday, in Lokoja disclosed that 15 traditional rulers have been upgraded from Second Class to First Class status. According to the statement, 18, have been upgraded from Third Class to Second Class status, while 55 were graded Third Class. The statement noted that the upgrade of the traditional rulers in the state followed approval by the State Executive Council. While urging the upgraded traditional rulers to justify their appointment by living above board, the special adviser said the Governor Yahaya Bello-led administration holds the traditional institutions in high esteem and would continue to accord priority to their welfare. He said that the appointment is with immediate effect. Following the approval of the upgrading of some Traditional rulers by the State Executive Council, Governor Bello has been extolled by the ‘Concern Citizens of Kogi State,’ “for deeming it fit to honour the wish and desire of the people across the state through their various traditional heads, some whose stools are due for decades but were not considered.” They gave the commendation during a courtesy visit to the Special Adviser to the Governor on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, in Lokoja. The group, led by Alhaji Isyaka Omeiza, in a mission statement, said the decision of His Excellency was not only laudable, but timely, as it has given sense of belonging and accommodated the yearning and interest of the people.ted into this laudable decision. Ohere thanked the group for appreciating the laudable achievement of the governor, who he described as a leader with strong political will, to address all manners of injustice in the traditional institutions. He commended the State Council of Chiefs for their exemplary leadership quality and urged them to support the blueprint of the administration. He congratulated the graded and upgraded traditional rulers in the state and urged them to rule with the fear of God, to attract peace, love, tranquility and development to their domains and subjects.