A Lagos High Court, Igbosere heard yesterday that the female lawyer, Udeme Otike-Odibi, was billed to relocate to the United Kingdom (UK) the day she allegedly killed her husband, Symphorosa Otike-Odibi, because of the frosty relationship between them. Her close friend, Mrs Mureen Offor, who is the fourth prosecution witness, made this known yesterday at the resumed proceeding of the court in her trial. She was led in evidence by the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), Ms Titilayo Shitta-Bey, before Justice Adedayo Akintoye. Mrs Offor told the court that in the early hours of May 3, at about 12:04 am, she received a text message from Udeme that she had done something terrible. That she could no longer take it anymore. Offor, who was praying at the time the message dropped on her phone, said she abandoned the prayer and sent a message back to her that “I thought we have packed your things for the trip and have talked about the issues before. I thought we agreed that we should not take any action until later.” “Our agreement was that you should first travel and take care of your health, and  come back later to address the relationship with your husband and see if the marriage will work out,” because she has thyroid issues”.. The witness said the defendant sent her a second message that said: “I have tried”. At this stage, she said she stopped praying and started calling her, but that she didn’t respond, adding that that must have been around 12:08 am. Offor said when she finished praying  around 12:30am, she sent Udeme another message that read: “‘You are not answering me.’ I sent again, she didn’t respond then I went to bed.” The witness said at about 4am, she received a call from the defendant’s mother informing her that Udeme and Symphorosa had been fighting, and she was worried and wanted to know whether she should come to Lagos. “I told her that Udeme was billed to travel to the UK that morning. That she should wait and let me make calls to know what was going on. I wanted to call Udeme’s sister, whom she was to live with in the UK, but I didn’t have her number. Then I tried an intimate friend of ours to ask if she had Udeme’s  sister’s number, but she said no. “I then called Symphorosa’s younger brother, Andrew. That was around past 5am, he didn’t pick, so I kept trying Udeme’s number. Then Andrew called and I apologised for calling him that early, he said he thought it was a mistake. “I told him that I received a call from Udeme’s mum, he said he also received a similar call from his mum the previous day that Udeme and Symphorosa were fighting, so he said they are adults and should be able to resolve their issues,” Offor said. Offor said she and Andrew were saying she had a flight to catch. That she ought to have gone to the airport as it was getting late. Then Andrew said he had already arranged for transportation for her. According to the witness “after I ended Andrew’s call, Udeme’s mum called and she was hysterical that Symphorosa was dead. I started screaming. I wasn’t hearing what she was saying anymore, it was my husband that came to collect the phone from me. “My husband received the call from Udeme’s mother that Symphorosa was dead and Udeme was taken to hospital. She said she called Anwuli, Symphorosa’s sister, so I got her number from Udeme’s mum and called her. She said her brother is dead and Udeme has been taken to hospital.” The witness further said there was a certain time the defendant told her that she wasn’t happy the way she was being treated, adding that she didn’t feel that Symphorosa was concerned about her health challenge. “She had returned from the UK before Easter and we saw. She said Symphorosa wasn’t eating at home, so she didn’t bother to cook his food. I then advised her to be cooking for him even if it’s a small portion. “On May 2  I saw Udeme, she had called me in the morning and asked me to come and assist her in packing her things, so I drove to their home at Diamond Estate, Shangotedo. We packed all the things she needed for the trip and we went to get some things from Shoprite and also watched a movie.” Offor, who said she had known the defendant since 1992 when they were both employed by Diamond Bank, added that she was also her chief bridesmaid when she wedded in 1996. She said that since they met in 1992, they had been close friends, adding that she also knew the deceased back in their university days at the University of Benin (UNIBEN). “I had known the deceased for over 30 years. We met at UNIBEN and he was my elder brother’s friend and was even my elder brother’s best man when he weeded in 1998, ” The deceased and the defendant got married in October 2014. I attended their wedding, I was aware that they were having issues in their marriage and Udeme wasn’t happy. I knew because she confided in me late last year that she was travelling to the UK. That she wanted to take some time off,” she said. During cross examination by the defendant’s counsel, Mr Oluseye Bamgbose, the witness said the defendant was a very peaceful person and that for the 26 years that she had known her, she had never seen her in any argument with anybody. Justice Akintoye adjourned the case till October 30 for continuation of trial. 