Chamberlin Adiaso was a governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State. In this interview with SUNNY NWANKWO, Adiaso who hails from Isiala Ngwa South Local Government spoke about the zoning arrangement in Abia State, why he stepped down for Dr. Uche Ogah and other partisan issues. Why did you jettison your governorship ambition, after many stakeholders had backed your aspiration? You are right. To be sincere with you, everything was calm and quiet within the Abia APC after the 2015 general elections until I initiated the moves to bring the party to limelight again. When I was doing all those things, I had no intention of running for the governorship. However, later I felt that there was need for me to serve my people in a higher capacity. I discovered that there was urgent need to give the people the opportunity to have a leadership that is better than what the state is experiencing at the moment. I discovered that the people are yearning for quality leadership which have been lacking over the years. Most people from Ngwa extraction who joined the governorship race later, aside from Comrade Chris Akomas, were all working with me. It is like they were watching to see how far I could go. I jettisoned the idea of running, because how can you have six aspirants from the Ukwa Ngwa axis without having a consensus candidate? I decided not to buy the nomination form, not because I didn’t have the fund. What I have done in the party is worth more than N50 million. How can six persons defeat a lone voice? Ogah was a lone voice and under any primary or delegate arrangement in this world, he stood out among all the other local governments, while we were six in the other divide. That was why I decided not to run. Why are you supporting Ogah? To be honest with you, Uche Ogah is a very humble man. He is filled with humility, intelligence and he is very much organised. He is also a good listener. In fact, he has all the qualities that is needed in a leader. Will your support for Ogah not truncate the tenets of Abia Charter of Equity? During the Ukwa Ngwa APC stakeholders meeting, I was the lone voice saying that we can only get it right if we go for a consensus approach. I am an Ngwa man to the core. I still believe in the Charter of Equity. So, my support for Uche Ogah was because my people refused to agree on a consensus. Observers believe the APC should have fielded an Ngwa man to challenge Ikpeazu who is from that axis. What’s your take on that? The PDP will only win the governorship in 2019, if the APC fails to handle its issues in a very organised way. If the APC candidate picks the right persons to be in his campaign team, I can assure you that the APC can comfortably beat the PDP in the 2019 polls. But, if the campaign team is not well organised, I can assure you that the PDP will come back to power in 2019. You have been described as a saboteur for not supporting your brothers to win the APC ticket. What’s your reaction to that? Everybody is entitled to his or her opinion. Even on the eve of the primary, I was still advocating for a consensus candidate. They are the ones that sold out, because they refused to believe in the truth. They refused to see the handwriting on the wall. I saw the handwriting on the wall and that was why it marvels me when people say a lot of things about me. I was the first and only person that went through the campaign in Ngwa land and other parts of the state with Ogah and I will still do the same thing anytime, any day, because he is an organised and humble person. I tell you, Ogah was able to win that primary because I threw my weight behind him. He will only have difficulties, if someone like me and others who enjoy respect of our kinsmen from the Ukwa/Ngwa extraction decide to leave his camp. If you were to support an aspirant from your Ngwa kinsmen, who would it be? To be honest with you, I would have chosen Comrade Chris Alozie Akomas. He has been there before as a deputy governor and has seen it all. He is honest, reliable and straightforward. He is not my best of friends, but he is reliable. The only problem is that if Akomas had gotten the ticket, it would still have been difficult, because the governor comes from the same zone (Obingwa) with him and don’t forget the power of incumbency. What is the way forward now that Ogah has emerged? We should not over celebrate picking the ticket. It is one thing to pick the ticket and another thing to win the general election against an incumbent governor who comes from an area that feels marginalised. The Ukwa/Ngwa person still feels marginalised; they still feel that they have done four years and that they deserve to do the next four years. Assuming that my brother, Okezie Ikpeazu, had been an independent person like Ogah, I can tell you that everybody in Ngwa land would have queued behind him. But, the point is that he has not done too well and he doesn’t have a word of his own; he is being controlled from somewhere nobody would want to mention. Ikpeazu should have done better than he has done so far, if it were not for that factor. Why does he owe workers several months of salaries, despite the Paris fund refund? How can people starve and work? These are the issues and that is why it is going to be difficult for him to retain that seat. It will be a miracle if he wins again in 2019. Have you made efforts to reach out the governor to discuss some of these things? We have so many persons who have reached out to him on some of these issues, but like I said, I don’t think that he has the power of his own to address them, because he doesn’t have the power of his own and that is why we are looking for somebody who is independent. Traditional rulers from the 17 local governments recently endorsed the governor for second term… It calls for laughter. Any traditional ruler that doesn’t endorse Ikpeazu will have his community split into pieces; that is what they do in Abia. If you don’t endorse the governor, you find yourself controlling only one village. It is very funny, but do they (traditional rulers) have a choice, the answer is no. They all did that out of fear. APC has not been tested in Abia and that is why we are going to present to Abia electorates one of the best governorship candidates that can do a different thing in Abia State when he becomes the governor in 2019, by the special grace of God. Abia has been imprisoned by godfathers and the advice that I am giving to my brother, Uche Ogah, is to be careful of godfathers in politics. How do you think that Ogah can surmount godfathers? Uche Ogah is like a brother to me; his decisions are based on his conviction of what he intends to do. I have had personal conversation with him and I must be sincere to tell you that he is not somebody that you will just come and tell something and he swallows it.  Ogah runs a successful business outfit as well. The godfathers start by sponsoring your election where you will in turn compensate them with juicy contracts and others might end up tying you in such a way that you will continue to pay allegiance to them until you leave office. Ogah is not going to go cap in hand begging for money to run his election. He plans well. He has all it takes to prosecute his campaign and go ahead to win election and if God is on our side, we will get it right. How does the APC intend to survive the heat of 2019 election? Let me tell you, the grassroots coverage of the APC is so marvelous. The party is not built around the big guns in the party. I can tell you that the grassroots of the party speaks for itself. We are in control of the grassroots and with the support of the likes of former Gover Orji Uzor Kalu, Nkechi Nwaogu, Chris Akomas, Nyerere Anyim Nyerere, Uche Ogah, Emeka Wogu and others who have been there for the party and that of a President that has a viable reputation, we will definitely get it right. The only thing that I am bordered about is who comes into the team; Ogah’s campaign team. We must get our acts together, so that the PDP will not laugh at us. We have just concluded the primary, what we are planning now is how to organise ourselves for the general election. We are planning on how to get Ikpeazu out of the Government House in the next few months. I can tell you that we have the best blueprint and I am sure that Abians will buy into it. It is a wonderful blueprint. The APC is a family. We are already working to reconcile the aggrieved members of the party. Ogah has chosen Martins Azubuike as his running mate. Where do you see that taking the party to in 2019? If Uche Ogah has chosen my friend and brother as his deputy and he believes that two of them can get it right, who am I then to say no? The choice of who becomes his running mate is the responsibility of the party and himself. But, he has not made a statement to that effect. We are still waiting for him to make that statement. What should Abians expect from Ogah, if he eventually becomes the governor? Uche Ogah is going to do a massive reconstruction of Abia within two years and that is why during our tour of the local governments before the party’s primary, he was saying that he would not reverse PDP’s policy over the years, but that he would build on what is on the ground. So, he is coming to revolutionalize Abia. He will bring infrastructural development, development in the education sector, pay salaries as at when due. He is going to also empower the people at the grassroots. Don’t forget that Uche Ogah has a company where he pays workers and he understands what it means to motivate workers through regular and prompt payment of salaries. Look at the Golden Guinea that has been lying moribund over the years, even when they have borrowed a lot of money; yet it has remained comatose. The Ikpeazu administration is doing one kilometre road in two years. To resurface a two or three kilometre road takes this government six to seven months to do. That is not what the people of Abia want and Uche Ogah is going to lay a solid road foundation in the state. The Glass Industry in Aba was not started by an Ngwa man.