The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has begun the mobilization of traditional rulers across the state ahead of the second edition of the Alaghodaro Summit, scheduled for November. The move to galvanise occupiers of the revered traditional seats is predicated on the crucial role traditional rulers play in the lives of Edo people and residents, as custodians of the people’s culture and traditions. Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie said: “Our royal fathers and chiefs across the state are being mobilized by the governor for a colourful Alaghodaro Summit which has Edo people as its focus. “As representatives of various communities and clans, these traditional rulers are in the best position to gauge the impact of the Obaseki-led administration on the people, in the last two years.” Osagie explained, “They are very influential. Most of the traditional rulers are opinion leaders and moulders. They foster peace and unity in their domains and have proven to be dependable allies in the state’s growth trajectory, as enunciated by governor Obaseki.” The governor’s aide maintained that “traditional rulers in the state have been supportive of the various reforms executed in critical sectors of the states, such as the fight against human trafficking and child molestation; the scrapping of Community Development Associations (CDAs); efforts at maintaining law and order, and the ban on the use of thugs for the collection of revenue in parts of the state amongst others.” Osagie added that the traditional rulers will be at the Alaghodaro Summit to share their experiences with other participants at the event. “For example, the traditional rulers in Edo North and central senatorial districts would talk about the impact the Edo Fertiliser and Chemical Plant in Auchi, is having on agricultural activities in the area. “Worthy of note is the role the Benin Monarch, Oba Ewuare II, has played in mobilising parents for the immunisation programme; his royal backing for the fight against human trafficking and illegal migration as well as the outlawed Community Development Association (CDAs),” he added. The 2018 edition of the Alaghodaro Summit will focus on Edo people, showcasing how the state is designing and implementing policies, programmes and initiative to improve the lives of the people, engender inclusive growth and enhance law and order. Recall that the 2017 edition of the Alaghodaro Summit tagged Envisioning the Future, hosted the crème of Nigeria’s investment climate, drawn from within and outside the country, who hailed Governor Godwin Obaseki’s efforts to re position the state as the most viable investment destination in the country.