A mother of four has injured her son for refusing to eat ‘fufu’ (a cassava meal). The woman, simply identified as Mrs. Celestine, was said to have beaten up her son, Tochukwu, until blood gushed out of his head. The incident occurred on Tuesday at 18, Olu Irolu Street, off Adeshina Road, Ijeshatedo in Surulere. It was gathered that neighbours, who intervened and stopped her from further beating up the boy, accused the woman of always venting her frustration on her children. The boy, who confirmed that he and his siblings usually suffered physical abuses from their mother, however, pleaded that she should not be arrested. A neighbour, who identified herself as the landlord’s daughter, said there was a night Mrs. Celestine beat up one of her children until he bled from ears. She said neighbours reported the incident at the police station and Mrs. Celestine was arrested, cautioned and released. The landlord’s daughter went on: “The latest incident occurred on Tuesday morning. I was sleeping when neighbours informed me that she had started beating up her son again. I asked what the matter was and they said because the boy refused to eat ‘fufu’. “I refused to intervene because I had reported her to the police and even to her pastor. The police told me to leave her alone; that they would caution her. “When she learnt that I had reported her to her pastor, she attacked me and accused me of denting her image. “Since then, I stayed away from her and her family. That was why I refused to intervene on Tuesday. “But I cannot continue to keep quiet. I left my home in Iwaya, Yaba, Lagos last August for my father’s house because of an issue involving the murder of a child. I don’t want anything like that to happen in my father’s house. “How can someone beat up a child mercilessly because he refused to eat fufu? “There was a day she beat up one of her children. Blood gushed out of his ear. I reported at the station and the police told me to leave her alone, saying they would warn her. “During the Ramadan fast, she repeated the act. She beat up her child from 12am to 3am. No one could sleep. I reported the incident to the church near our house that they should counsel her. Consequently, she became annoyed with me.” 