Traders at Agbo-Edo market, Nkwo Nnewi, Anambra State, on Friday protested attempted plans by the state government to demolish marked out 320 stalls in the market. The traders also called for the immediate suspension of what they called “over taxation” by their market leaders. The protesters, who shut down the market, marched round major streets in the industrial community to press home their demands before culminating at the palace of the Nnewi traditional ruler, Igwe Kenneth O. Orizu III. The traders, led by Mr Ernest-Mary Ezenwa, alleged high-handedness of the market leadership, under Mr Christopher Osuchukwu. They also accused the leadership of collaborating with the state government to demolish traders’ stalls and impose high stall levies. The traders said, “Notices of demolition of 320 stalls from the State Ministry of Trade, Commerce, Market and Wealth Creation in agency with Star-Unic Enterprises Limited were pasted at their shops on a Sunday without any arrangement for the affected traders relocation. “The Anambra State government imposed a stall age levy of N12,200 per shop in the market and the leaders increased the levy to N13,200. “We will not pay anything above what government stipulated.” Some of the placards displayed by the traders read: ” No more imposition of illegal levies in Agbo-Edo market, no more structures in our market, we don’t need building of more shops, among others.” They called on the Governor, Willie Obiano to intervene in the ugly situation to avert impending crises.  Addressing the protesters through the Crown Prince, Obi Orizu, Igwe Orizu III called for calm, assuring that their complaints would be given the attention it deserved. The monarch promised a meeting with Nnewi North council chairman, Nzuko-Ora (Nnewi town union), other stakeholders including the traders themselves to look into the matter. Reacting, chairman of the market association, Mr Christopher Osuchukwu said the traders were served three months notice, which he said, was meant to remove illegal structures in the market, construct drainage and create access roads. He however denied any difference from the N12,200 government asked traders to pay, challenging those who accused his leadership of illegal levy to produce a receipt to back up their claims.