The headquarters of the 3rd Division of Nigeria Army has condemned rumor being circulated in social media that the body of the missing General Idris Alkali has been found in old mining pond where his car was found. The army has however debunked the rumor as untrue. In a statement issued in Jos yesterday, Deputy Director Army Public Relations, Col. Kayode Ogunsanya, said, “The attention of Headquarters 3 Division Nigerian Army has been drawn to news making the rounds on the various social media platforms in respect of the missing immediate past Chief of Administration (Army), Major General Idris M Alkali (retired).  In the social media, it was reported that eleven (11) cars and two (2) corpses had been recovered. “This is false and misleading” He said: “This headquarters wish to appreciate members of the public for the interest they have shown in finding the above named missing retired senior officer.  I wish to state unequivocally that since the commencement of the search and rescue operation as directed by Army Headquarters,  the following have been discovered in the abandoned mining pit filled with water: “On 29 September 2018, a black Toyota Corolla car with the registration number KWARA MUN 670 AA, a customized white T-Shirt with Nigerian Army logo and the general’s name inscribed on it as well as a pair of canvass shoe belonging to the retired missing senior officer. “On 2 October 2018, a white Toyota Hiace bus with registration number PLATEAU RYM 307 XA which was reported missing with the driver on 24 June 2018 and a red Rover car with registration number BAUCHI AG 645 TRR which was also allegedly reported to have been buried along with the occupants on 31 January 2013. “The general public is hereby enjoined to disregard news being circulated on the social media to misinform the public about the ongoing search and rescue operations as it was the handiwork of the fifth columnists. Col Ogunsanya who also used the opportunity to confirm the ongoing military operations in Jos said, “However, a cordon and search operation is ongoing in the general area of Dura – Du District in Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State. The aim of the operation is to find the missing retired  senior officer either dead or alive. This will enable his family to re-unite with him if found alive or for the family and Nigerian Army to give him a befitting military burial if he is dead.  Meanwhile, some people have been arrested for further interrogation. “Headquarters 3 Division is hereby urging the entire  good and peace loving people of Plateau State and most importantly the people of  Dura – Du District to come forward and give credible information about the whereabouts of the missing retired senior officer.  This headquarters can be reached on GSM number 09074028881. Handsome reward awaits a credible informant and the source of information shall be protected”