Immediate past Minister for Solid Minerals, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, a former governor of Ekiti State, was on Tuesday re-sworn-in as governor of the southwestern state following his resounding victory at the July 14 gubernatorial election in the state, but he won’t have much time to celebrate, writes Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan. FROM a backlog of unpaid salaries running into a couple of months to angry pensioners dying over unpaid arrears; from a lackluster statewide economy to a rising wave in crime, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the returnee governor of Ekiti State, who took the oath of office for the second time last Tuesday at a well-attended swearing in ceremony, inherits a messy to-do list as he succeeds his successor, former Governor Ayodele Fayose. Fayemi, who ran on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), defeated the then Deputy Governor of the state and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Professor Kolapo Olusola, and other candidates to emerge the winner of the election. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared that Fayemi polled 197,459 votes, while, his closest rival, Olusola, got 178,121 votes. The 53-year-old returning governor is a native of Isan-Ekiti in Oye Local Government of Ekiti State. This is his second term as the governor of the state. He had lost a previous re-election bid to Fayose in 2014. The state Chief Judge, Justice Ayodeji Daramola, administered the Oath of Office on him in Ado-Ekiti. President Muhammadu Buhari was represented at the event by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha. Also present were the governors of Kaduna, Nasir el-Rufa’i; Oyo, Abiola Ajumobi; Kebbi, Atiku Bagudu, and Lagos, Akinwunmi Ambode. Upon his emergence as governor-elect last July, Fayemi had told the people of the state that he will pay the backlog of salaries owed civil servants in the state within the first six months of his return to office. In addition, the former Minister of Solid Mineral Development promised to re-introduce free education in the state, saying Ekiti State lost many of its values under Fayose. “Ekiti people should expect the eight-point agenda redoubled. They should expect the backlog of salaries cleared within the first six months of my coming to the office. They should expect re-introduction of free education, including payment of fees for the West Africa Examination Council, National Examination Council, National Business and Technical Examinations Board and the national entrance examination into tertiary institutions which they lost out on. “We will re-introduce social security scheme for the elderly in an enhanced manner. They should expect the return of our youth volunteer programme. Luckily, the Federal Government has started a programme similar to what we used to have in Ekiti State, called N-Power. We will add our own initiative to that programme. The outgoing government is not interested in what happens to the young in our society beyond using them as thugs and forcing them to eat crumbs from the table of the master. They should expect a return to decency, decorum, integrity, values in Ekiti State. It is about reclaiming our land and restoring our values which we have lost in the past four years,” Fayemi pledged.  Salary and pension This is Fayemi’s number one issue. Outgoing Governor Fayose’s government did very little to clear the worrisome backlog of unpaid wages in spite of several promises and endless threats of industrial unrest. Fayemi had severally condemned what he called the ‘non-charlance’ of the previous administration to the plight of workers in the state. It is expected that he will move swiftly to tackle the problem. To further underscore the importance of the task for the new governor, the National President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Ayuba Wabba, recently called on Governor Fayemi, not to renege on his campaign promises to the workers in the state, especially the prompt settlement of their unpaid salary arrears and pension, as soon as he is sworn-in in October. Wabba observed that one of the major factors that worked against the outgoing government in Ekiti State during the Saturday, July 14th, 2018 governorship election was its failure to offset the more than six months’ salary arrears and pensions owed workers. The NLC president noted that workers everywhere would always support any government that took their welfare as a priority, adding that they (workers) created the wealth. “I can see that one issue that played out is that the workers and pensioners in the state have not been paid salaries for the past six to eight months. What happened in Ekiti is that workers will no longer be maltreated.  I think that will help our politics in the future. Fayemi should address the workers’ plight by fulfilling his promises and offsetting the salary arrears of workers and pension,” Wabba urged. Ekiti workers under the aegies of the Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees, (NULGE), are backing Wabba’s request with a loud ovation. They want Fayemi to speedily honor an agreement signed recently at the Joint Account Allocation Committee. The workers said doing this will further endear the new governor to the workers who had supported his re-election at the July poll. The workers accused Fayose of not honouring the September 4 agreement, despite the enormous support his administration enjoyed from Ekiti workers. The state’s NULGE President, Olubunmi Ajimoko, lamented what he called the outright abandonment of workers’ welfare by the Fayose administration, especially in the payment of arrears. According to him, all through the years of the previous administration in office, months of salary arrears remained unpaid while workers were daily being retired from service with their entitlements unpaid. He added that the incoming administration will be expected to do more in the area of workers’ welfare. “We want the arrears to be cleared and salaries should henceforth be paid as at when due,” he appealed. Speaking on what his colleagues would want the new governor to look into urgently, Secretary of the association of pensioners in the state, Comrade Agboola Abiodun, said it is sad that many of their colleagues died of minor ailments due to their inability to seek medical help when ill. “We are now a group of vulnerable persons who cannot seek medical help as our pensions are no longer paid. “Fayose’s government neglected pensioners. This impoverished our members all these years and they started dying of minor ailments. We want this to change as the new government come into office. We are tired of how our members are suffering and dying due to unpaid pension arrears. So, we appealed to Governor Fayemi, to take payment of pension very serious,” he said.  Debt burden Another headache Fayemi will have to immediately grapple with on assumption of office is the huge debt burden he will be inheriting from the outgoing administration. Many analysts have been wondering how he intends to fulfill his election promises with such unpalatable debt profile. “The new governor will have to put on his thinking cap as he may not enjoy much support from lenders given the current debt profile of his state,” Mark Ighalo of Voters’ Right Agenda (VoRA) said. Speaking while taking his oath of office, Fayemi said his government would work hard to bring succour to the populace, by removing the cankerworm of corruption that has eaten deep into the state’s fabrics under the PDP-led government of Fayose. He revealed that all the finances of the last administration shall be reviewed, saying this became imperative to ensure that the culture of prudence and financial propriety are brought to bear in the governance of the state. Fayemi lamented that the state is indebted to the tune of N170 billion, being loans taken to undertake some projects during the last administration, assuring however that the challenge won’t impede his government from delivering dividends of democracy to the citizens. The former minister stated that Ekiti under him won’t slide and degenerate to the level of allowing school children to pay various taxes in their quests to receive formal education. He promised that his government shall reinstate the N5,000 social security to the elderly and make tremendous positive impacts in the areas of agriculture, social investment and economy. “In the last four years, Ekiti was governed by a rudderless, inept and egregiously corrupt government, which was led by those who deceived our people through the instrument of stomach infrastructure,” he said. A document reported to have been forwarded to the Debt Management Office by the outgoing government, allegedly put the current debt profile of the state at N120 billion as at June 31, 2018. These include: Commercial Bank Loans of N2,087,788,065.28 received from Wema Bank in 2016; balance of N18,226,699,707.18 received from the FGN bond by his government in 2015; Budget Support Facility of N16,869,000,000.00 received in 2016 and 2017; Salary Bailout of N9,083,761,215.40 received in 2015. Others are Commercial Bank Loan against funds due to Ekiti State in the FGN Excess Crude Account of N9,545,173,472.78 received by the current government in 2016; Contractors Arrears of N2,087,788,065.8; Pension and Gratuity Arrears of N22,162,602,017.49; Salaries arrears and other staff claims of N8,373651,226.50; and Judgment Debt of N95,048,963.35. Also included are commercial agriculture loan of N163,450,000.00 and N3,484,469,345.51 outstanding balance of the Bond taken by the Fayemi administration. But countering the committee’s position, Fayose stated that the state government owes N59.5 billion in debt and not N120 billion. He maintained that his administration did not commit the state to any financial institution in form of bonds and commercial loans. He challenged the DMO and the Federal Ministry of Finance to publish details of any loan taken by the Fayose administration, including the banks that granted such loans. Speaking on the situation, Senator Olubunmi Adetunmbi, who chaired a committee set up by Fayemi to look into the state’s debt profile, said his committee established that Ekiti is heavily indebted as the Fayose administration closes shop. “The committee met with 76 interest groups, including labour unions, interest groups, civil society bodies, development partners who assisted with information of what is going on in the outgoing administration,” he said. Urging Fayemi to take the bull by the horn in handling the precarious debt profile of the state, an indigenous socio-political group, Ajoro Ekiti, has also called for independent audits of the state’s financial books in the last 10 years. The group, while promising to support the new administration, said it is only a responsive government devoid of “vindictiveness and petty politics,” that can rescue the state from the current debt burden. “The opaque debt profile of the state is worrisome and unacceptable, and consequently, we are demanding for an immediate comprehensive review and independent auditing of the state’s finances and debts profile in the last 10 years. It is our considered opinion that the scope of this investigation and its independent nature by a reputable auditing firm will help to lay to rest, the bickering over the true position of the state’s indebtedness and its financial viability. “We therefore urge the new administration to immediately kick start this process to open up the state to scrutiny in its first 100 days, so that Ekiti people can be more aware of the running of their government. We also wish to task the new administration to apply knowledge and ingenuity in creating wealth without plunging the state into debts and unbearable tax burden which could worsen the plight of the people,” the group said.  Ekiti economy For Babatunde Ayodedeji Ajisola, the Organizing Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bedfordshire, United Kingdom, the urgent revamping of the now moribund economy of the state is one task Governor Fayemi must commit energy and resources to. The U.K based Ekiti son lamented what he called the economic failures of the previous administration. “The total development of Ekiti is what concerns all of us and we must all rise to support a visionary leader and I am confident that Fayemi has what it takes to make the state greater. Fayose, and his party, PDP, did nothing in the last three-and-half years. The projects being enjoyed by the people were the ones he (Fayemi) executed in his first tenure. “His projects like civic centres, health centres, five kilometer community roads, school and hospital renovations are flagship projects that swung votes in APC’s favour. He has also promised that all the human capital development policies like payment of monthly stipends to the aged, free health services, free education, payment of WAEC, NECO, NABTEB and JAMB fees for pupils in public schools will return the moment an APC government takes over. “Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) assisted projects, employment through Peace Corps, Ekiti Traffic Management Agency (EKSTMA), return of Core Subject Allowances and Rural Teachers’ Allowances, regular payment of workers’ salaries and pensioners’ benefits and the special health intervention programme for Obas and Chiefs tagged “Ilera Laafin,” Local Council Development Areas, Volunteer Corps scheme, among others. “These policies, projects and ideas alongside many others, were what he used to galvanized Ekiti back then in his first term. I strongly believe Ekiti people desire all these because that was why they voted APC. All these will re-invigorate the economy because it is the same Ekiti people and Ekiti businesses that will be involved in carrying out these policies and programs,” he said.. Good enough, Fayemi, while seeking the people’s mandate, had said his administration would create a conducive atmosphere for private businesses to thrive in the state. “I will start by resuscitating the State Traffic Management Agency, Fire Service, Peace Corps and the Youths in Commercial Agriculture Development scheme. My government will create a conducive atmosphere for private businesses to thrive, thereby boosting job creation for the teeming youths of the state,” he promised. To many observers of the happenings in Ekiti state, this is the time for Fayemi to make good his promises. “Ekit needs both Fayemi and the promises he made to them now more than ever. The state is in serious need of overhauling if it is to avoid becoming a failed state in a matter of years. The Fayose administration was more populist than progressive and this is telling on the state’s economy,” Ighalo lamented. Fayemi, it seems, is prepared for the task ahead. On Tuesday, while taking office formally, he said, “in our quests for economic rejuvenation, our government shall invest heavily in Youth in commercial Agriculture, because Ekiti is basically agrarian, reactivate community based projects, tap into our tourist potential and ensure security of local and foreign investors. “In this context, never again will Ekiti slip into the hands of those who knew nothing about governance, never again shall we allow our school children to pay taxes, never again shall we abandon the burgeoning resources at Ikogosi Warm Spring to waste, never again shall we allow our judiciary to be debased by draconian government and never again shall the most educated State like Ekiti be apostle of stomach infrastructure that has made us laughing stock.”