Several Nollywood stakeholders have expressed sadness over the death, at the weekend, of a notable filmmaker, Mr. Chris Ekejimbe. Ekejimbe, a highly vocal director and CEO of 4Screams Studios, died at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) on Saturday morning, after months of managing complications arising from wrong medical prescription. The deceased who hails from Anambra State was a board member of the Association of Nollywood Core Producers (ANCOPS) and founder of notable Nollywood social media group, Film4Life. News of his demise was broken to members of the  famous industry WhatsApp group by founding president of ANCOPS, Mr. Alex Eyengho early Saturday. “Folks! Sad day for Nollywood! Chris Ekejimbe just passed on a few moments ago at LUTH. Lord have mercy. I just spoke with the wife!” Eyengho stated. The news sent shivers round Nollywood camps, with condolence messages pouring in, even from Kigali, Rwanda, where filmmakers and actors were gathered for the 14th edition of the Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA) which held Saturday night. The late Ekejimbe attended this year’s edition of Cannes International Film Festival in April, and may have been last seen in public in Nigeria at the Nigerian creative industry summit at Protea Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos, last month and the recent premiere of AY’s Merry Men film. Ekejimbe’s creation, Film4Life, is an engaging strictly film issue-based  platform with industry influencers including actors Richard Mofe- Damijo, Joke Silva, Segun Arinze, Kate Henshaw, Ibinabo Fiberesima, filmmakers Mahmood Ali-Balogun,  Uzodinma Okpechi, Alex Enyengho, Opa Williams, Lancelot Oduwa-Imasuen, Charles Novia, Charles Inojie, Chidi Nwokeabia, Trade Ogidan, Greg Odutayo, Izu Ojukwu, and heads of film agencies like Executive Director of National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB), Mr. Adedayo Thomas and Managing Director of Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC), Dr. Chidia Maduekwe as members. Reacting to the passing of Ekejimbe, Novia said: “A Man with the perfect Networking skills has gone. His greatest legacy, amongst others, would be this forum where he brought together great and diverse minds for the development of a profession he loved and cherished. I have been so gutted all day. This picture Izu posted here was the last time I saw him at the NFIS. He was weak yet managed to attend and mingle. I asked him what the nature of his illness was and he said it was aggravated malaria. I felt he was very ill and told him so but he waved it aside and assured me he would get better. We should honour his legacy and somehow continue the ideals of this forum in his honour. It would be cruel to disband the group or exit because he’s no more. He was one of a kind.” Odutayo said: “Rest In Peace man, Chris kept it real, stubborn to a fault but always true to his beliefs, I’m actually speechless.” Nwokeabia said: “Chris Ekejimbe dead? Shame on you death. For a man who was always conscious of what he ate, what he drank, was always at the national stadium every weekend jogging and walking, all in a bid to keep fit and healthy, from where then  did death sneak in?  Death, na bastard you be. Chris you died a great man. Irrespective of what anybody thought about you, you were resolute in your conviction and beliefs. Only a few of your ilk are left in Nollywood. Adieu Chris. Rest in peace.” Inojie said: “Unapologetically Bohemia! A Nollywood encyclopedia! A mobile repertoire of film knowledge! A don and master of the art of filmmaking! Chris Ekejimbe… No coinage aptly describes you! Rest in peace bro, Nollywood will forever miss you!” The remains of late Ekejimbe has since been moved to Anambra State, while his colleagues on Film4Life are currently observing a quiet moment which began midnight on Saturday until Monday. Photographs of the lifetime of the deceased are only being shared by members who will resume discussions today on the next steps of action.