The Lagos State government has restated its commitment to economic diversification through effective policies and implementation to boost the Agricultural sector. Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Tunji Bello, spoke yesterday at this year’s World Food Day with the theme: Our Actions Are Our Future: A Zero Hunger World by 2030 is Possible. He said: “I wish to emphasise that the Lagos State government, through the Ministry of Agriculture, has developed agricultural initiatives aimed at addressing the need of diversifying the economy. The recent breakthrough in rice-agribusiness, considering the collaboration between Lagos and Kebbi states on large production, processing and distribution of the LAKE Rice product, has created a land mark in economic diversification.” The governor said the state has acquired a 32-metric tonnes per hour rice milling plant, which will become operational next year, to ensure that Lagos meets up with the demand of its LAKE rice consumers. He added that Lagos is also collaborating with Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ekiti and Ondo states in rice production to ensure that the rice mill gets sufficient staple. According to him, the rice mill will provide over 200,000 jobs in the rice value chain in the state. Ambode said the state had established an Agricultural Estate Initiative, promotion of vegetable production with the use of greenhouse technology, cage and pen culture in fisheries production. The governor said the state was also strengthening farm settlement initiative, empowerment of farmers and other initiatives to improve agricultural development and sustainable food security in Lagos. He added that the Ministry of Agriculture had established community-based processing centres in three coconut-producing communities at Ajido in Badagry, Magbon-Alade in Lekki and Irewe in Ojo. Ambode said: “The processing centres have been equipped with modern facilities to reduce human dredgers. The rehabilitation of the coconut belt is ongoing. This activity will protect the coastal shoreline to attract more tourists to the state as well as provide improved and high-yielding coconut seedlings to farmers.” 