… Calls for unity, lauds Amosun’s achievements  The National Working Committee (NWC)’s declared winner of the governorship primary of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has said the victory at the Wednesday primary is for the “party and the good people of Ogun State.” Six persons – Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade(Ogun West), Senator Gbenga Kaka (Ogun East), Otunba Bimbo Ashiru(Ogun East), Prince Dapo Abiodun(Ogun East), Jimi Lawal(Ogun East) and Abayomi Hunye (Ogun West) contested for the APC governorship ticket, according to Muhammad Ndabawa, while declaring, last Wednesday, Abiodun winner and gubernatorial candidate of APC, and coming a day after the state Chairman of the party, Chief Derin Adebiyi, had also announced Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s man, Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade as the party’s candidate. However, in a release made available to The Nation, Abiodun acknowledged that all other contestants were “eminently qualified” to win but said just one must emerge. He added that what lies ahead now is victory in 2019 and appealed to all party members and supporters to put aside their differences in the spirit collective responsibility and pull forces together to ensure victory at the general election next year. According to the oil magnate and real estate player, a “house divided against itself cannot stand.” While commending Amosun for his achievements in the state over the past seven years, having “laid a good foundation for others to build on,” Abiodun also implored everybody to join hands with him to “build a wonderful future for the people of Ogun State where everyone, irrespective of tribe, religion or affiliation does matter.” He said: “I do not see this victory as mine but that of our great party and the good people of our dear state – Ogun State. “I am immensely overwhelmed and encouraged by your show of love, trust, resilience and support for me and the values my team and I stand for. In return, I am using this opportunity to once again reiterate my commitment to the unity of our great party and ultimately the continued development of Ogun State. “Our work has just begun. All of us that contested are eminently qualified however one of us must emerge. We now have the collective responsibility of putting aside our differences and pulling our forces together to ensure victory at the general election next year, for as we all know, a house divided against itself cannot stand. I implore you to please join hands with me. “Winning the election in 2019 is a collective responsibility that we must jointly discharge. This is not the time to relent on our efforts. Rather, it is the time to buckle down and put our best foot forward. “Personally, I have no doubt that what you have given me is a great responsibility, but in the words of Abraham Lincoln, “you cannot evade the responsibility of tomorrow by evading it today.” Therefore, I hereby accept this responsibility with a great sense of privilege and I promise to do that which is right and beneficial to the people of Ogun State at every point in time. This is my solemn promise. “I want to use this opportunity to appreciate the incumbent Governor Ibikunle Amosun for his achievements in the state over the past seven years . He has indeed laid a good foundation for others to build on. “Let us all join our hands together as we take up the challenge to build a wonderful future for the people of Ogun State where everyone , irrespective of tribe, religion or affiliation does matter.
I am resolutely committed to this. “With utmost humility, I Prince Adedapo Abiodun hereby accept the historic mandate bestowed on me on Wednesday by the members of our great party as the flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State for 2019.“