The 2015 governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance ( APGA ), Dr. Alex Otti and Chief Chikwe Udensi have respectively emerged as 2019 governorship candidates of APGA in separate gubernatorial primaries held at two different venues on Friday October 5 in Umuahia, the Abia State capital. At a primary held at the APGA party secretariat located along Ikot Ekpene road under the leadership of Rev Augustine Ehiemere, Otti emerged winner with a total vote of 574 while 36 were invalid out of the 610 votes castes by accredited delegates. In another primary held by the Nnanna Ukaegbu led faction at Kolpin Society Locust Housing Estate, Umuahia, Udensi garnered 532 votes, while Otti scored 57 with 27 votes being void. Speaking at the end of the exercise, the returning officer, Barr. Carol Dike-Okoroafor, the National Welfare Officer of APGA who supervised the guber primary at Ikot Ekpene road described the election which held at Kolpin Society which produced Udensi as void. According to Okoroafor, they were at the secretariat to affirm the adoption of Otti whose name and picture appeared on the ballot paper. She said that the only election recognized by the leadership of the party was the one that she supervised with personnel of the Independent National Electoral Commission led by Madam Bridget Izuka. Addressing his supporters after being declared winner by the returning officer, Otti promised that he was going to take the state from its present state of backwardness and darkness to progress and economic boom, adding that he is confident that the party will be taking over the seat of power in the state come 2019. Otti who promised not to dip his hands into the purse of the state as being experienced at the moment also said that unlike the incumbent that has been under the caps and whims of his godfathers, he would run his administration without being manipulated by any godfather. Otti promised to end the sufferings of the people have been subjected to in the past eight years as a result of bad governance orchestrated by PDP led government.