Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has said he enjoys the best of relationship with President Muhammadu Buhari, the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole and National Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Fayemi described the claim of a political pressure group, Buhari Support Group that he is working against the President as “baseless and unfounded.” The Ekiti governor also dismissed the allegations that he is working to remove Oshiomhole and that he is fighting Tinubu. Speaking through his Chief Press Secretary, Olayinka Oyebode, Fayemi wondered how the group came about the alleged feud with the three senior party figures. Fayemi said he holds Buhari, Oshiomhole and Tinubu in high esteem noting that the trio contributed immensely to his victory in the last governorship election in Ekiti. He said: “Governor Fayemi holds President Buhari, Asiwaju Tinubu and Comrade Oshimohole in high esteem and he still maintains a good relationship with them which is not hidden. “We don’t know where the Buhari Support Group got their story from; Governor Fayemi has the best of respect for these eminent party leaders and he has no reason to be working against them. “Let us ask ourselves, on what basis will Dr. Fayemi will be working against the President? This was the man who appointed him Minister and supported him to regain the governorship seat. “Why will he fight Comrade Oshiomhole? It was under his chairmanship that APC won back Ekiti and everybody knew the role played by the national chairman. “Asiwaju Tinubu is a mentor to the governor; both of them had come a long way in a relationship that has lasted over two decades. “In fact, Asiwaju attended the governor’s inauguration last week and the roles he played in the APC victory in Ekiti election cannot be forgiven in a hurry. “Governor Fayemi has no reason to fight or work against our revered President, our respected national chairman and our revered national leader. “The allegation is false, baseless, unfounded and exists only in the imagination of those peddling it.”