Seven time World Champion in the Lightweight category, Demarcus Deon Corley has been given the task of producing potential world champions from Nigeria through a TV reality show called ‘Naija Boxing Rumble Reality Show’. The Naija Boxing Rumble Reality Show which will begin next year, will see 24 male boxers and 16 female boxers being tutored by the current World Boxing Union (WBU) Lightweight Champion, who claimed the title when he defeated Patrick ‘El Elegante’ Lopez of Venezuela in Lagos back in April. In a chat with SportingLife at the Boxing Gym of the Nigeria Police College in Lagos on Tuesday, Corley who donated boxing equipments worth millions of Naira to boxers, said his aim is to help nuture future champions through the reality show. “I am blessed and my record speaks for itselt. 51 wins, 38 knock outs, 31 loses. I have been in the ring with the best, from Floyd Mayweather to Miguel Cotto, Lucas Matthysse, Marcos Maidana etc “I have passion for the sport and I want to give back to the sport. When I came over here in April and won the WBU Lightweight title, I fell in love with Africa, I fell in love with Nigeria. “So my reasons for coming back is to give back to this young boxers and do this tv show called Naija Boxing Rumble. We want to make a champion from this country and help the amateurs make it to the Olympics. So my goal is to help these fighters become a better fighter and become a world champion,” Corley popularly called Chop Chop said. Explaining the reality show, Ajibade Olajoku of Mansa Musa Boxing Promotions said that aside from being talented, potential athlete must have boxing license to be part of the show. “There is going to be an aggressive rounds of trials and after that we we end up with 16 highly skilled females and 24 highly skilled male boxers. The show is going to be highly interactive; it is going to have multiple locations. So we are going to house those boxers and every week they will be moving around from states to states, different challenges that will challenge them mentally, physically. “Also it will be highly engaging live show whereby the audience too can also partake. It will be in form of elimination where a boxer will be eliminated every week. If you do well in the challenge, you make it to the next level. Whoever wins has a good future to fight in America, United Kingdom etc,” Olajoku told SportingLife.