Trauma care experts have advocated the inclusion of sign language in the curriculum, to improve access to information and health care by persons living with disabilities (PWDs). The experts, Dr. Olajumoke Akinsanya, a senior executive officer, Trauma Care International Foundation, Dr. Amaka Adekoya of the same foundation and Mr. Seun Dosunmu told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday in Lagos that sign language should be included in the curriculum. The foundation is a non-governmental organisation (NGO) working on how to improve the state of trauma care and emergency response services. Akinsanya said: “It should be a conscious effort that in each local government, there should be trained medical personnel that understand sign language.” She added: “In that way, they will be able to attend to the deaf in the community. The deaf, in turn, will not feel isolated. They will know that the government has them in mind. “Sign language is very important. The exclusion of the deaf, which we have been experiencing in our society, will reduce drastically. “Like any other language, sign language improves communication, development and growth.” Adekoya urged the government to design programmes that would provide life-saving information for the deaf and other people living with disabilities. He said: “We realise that in the event of an emergency, nobody is thinking of how a hearing impaired person will respond. “A lot of programmes being designed are targeted at people who are physically able. “But there is need to begin to include persons with disabilities (PWDs) in our programmes; include sign language in our curriculum to improve access to information and health care as the case may be. “Also, curiosity is incited in every individual when sign language is introduced in our curriculum. People will begin to see it as another language and be able to assist the deaf around them.” Dosunmu, the founder, Across All Initiative, an NGO, called for the improvement of general well-being of PWDs in the society, saying everyone should be included, irrespective of any disability. “As an advocate, I am learning the sign language, because I understand it is the language of the deaf. “In the course of working with the deaf, I discovered that in addition to stigmatisation, not much has been done in the area of awareness. “This is why my organisation is doing so much to create awareness and organise programmes that promote the inclusion of deaf persons in the society. “We intend to teach sign language in schools and train health professionals in order to improve deaf persons’ access to health care,” he said.