One of the greatest challenges facing the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is the ethnic, religious and other divisive crises in the country. The crises came to a head in recent times with the killings of innocent Nigerians under what was referred to as herdsmen/farmers clashes. Although it was claimed in some quarters that foreigners were camouflaging as herdsmen to kill the innocent Nigerians. Others have also linked it to underground plots to discredit the current administration ahead of the 2019 general elections. The aim, according to them, was to make the administration score low on one of the three major objectives of the administration, which is to secure the nation. While the government is said to have been taking steps to eliminate the herdsmen/farmers clashes, it has also taken several measures to ensure unity, peace and harmony among Nigerians. It has rolled out many jingles on radios, television stations and advertisements in the country promoting oneness and unity among Nigerians. But as much as it has been trying its best in that direction, it appeared as if not much success has been achieved. One major reason for this was that those bent on causing division and disunity among Nigerians, for political or other reasons, are increasing their paces and getting better with their games. So today, despite all the talk shops and jingles, the different cultures and religions in the country appeared to be dividing Nigerians more. Many Nigerians last week however welcomed another dimension to promoting unity among Nigerians. Rather than the past talk shops and jingles, the new initiatives, under the platform of ANISZA, plans to use pictures to promote Nigeria’s unity. The initiative started with unity photo exhibition in Abuja, which will then extend to the 36 states of the federation. The coordinator of the new initiative, who is also Personal Photographer to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Special Assistant to the President on Visual Communication, Novo Isioro, spoke on the project last Tuesday in Abuja. She said “These differences that we have should be celebrated and not become a problem. Why do I have to favour a Yoruba man over Igbo man?  Why do I have to favour Hausa man over Yoruba man? Because we have a country before independence when it didn’t matter where you come from. “Then, even a northerner can contest and win elections in the west without any bias. Then, we all saw ourselves as one Nigeria, where we came together to achieve more. “But nowadays, its so sad that when you want to rent just an apartment, the landlord will ask you if you are from Benue State or Kogi State or other parts of the country. “This is a personal experience and I have constantly been wondering why do I have to be from a particular region to get a house. It is that bad. “So, I just thought that this disunity has eaten us so deep and we should just do something about it. I personally thought that as a visual artist and photographer, I understand how image tells a lot more than just talking to a group of Nigerians. “So, I thought we should use pictures to tell the stories. I went into the archives before Nigeria’s independence.” she said She added “It is to show to Nigerians that there is really no difference among us, humans are humans, whether black or white or from the north, south, west or east. “So, we should stop the drama, the agitations and the hate speeches and let’s work together. “It is actually focused on young people because people of my generation, that is 40 years downward, do not really understand the depth of our history. History was taken away from our curriculum, I think it is now optional, in a nation where our youths know nothing about our heritage. “So, those were the things that were bothering me and we want to do something on, otherwise the young generation and the unborn ones will gradually come to a country where history is zero or dead. “It is a mobile gallery. The idea of unity exhibition has never been done in this country before. So the plan is to take the containerised structure to other states after FCT. We will focus on schools. We are inviting at least one secondary school from each state in Nigeria. We plan to host them for three days. The first day for exhibition, second day for workshop and third day a small excursion as they travel back to their states. “Then we will now take it to other states, where we will be in a state for up to one month because we want all the young persons in the state to partake in the event. “We are presently collaborating with the Ministry of Information,  Ministry of Youths and Sports, and we hope to collaborate with more ministries and state governments. “Apart from this project majorly focusing on teaching our youths about our fast lost history, in terms of peace and unity that we used to have in the country, it is also drawing attention to how we should handle our national archives and other related issues. “We are also drawing attention to the fact that just like English and Mathematics, we cannot take History subject away from our curriculum even up to tertiary institutions. This is the major reason why ANISZA came to life.” she said Supporting the project, a Museum and Heritage Consultant, Mayo Adediran said “There are so many similarities in our differences dating back culturally to the landmarks of Nigeria before 500 AD. “So where is that love of our first existence? We should begin to ask how do we get back there. We should trace our steps back to where we missed it.” he added Apart from other groups supporting the project, Daily Times of Nigeria is also partnering with it to supply the needed past records from its archives, which has existed in the past 92 years. It is hoped that this new initiative will go a long way to unite Nigerians. And also rekindle the lost love and end the killings and differences among Nigerians.