The Senate on Wednesday mandated its leadership and the leadership of the House of Representatives to urgently meet with President Muhammadu Buhari over increasing spate of killings in parts of the country. Saraki and Dogara were specifically asked to inquire from President Buhari how the recommendations of the National Assembly on ways and means to prevent crisis in the country were being implemented. The resolution followed the consideration and adoption of a motion on “The wanton killings in Kaduna State, a call for caution.” Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi (Kaduna North) in his lead debate drew the attention of the Senate to the wanton killings in Kasuwa Magani, a suburb of Kaduna metropolis under Chikun Local Government, Kaduna State. He expressed concerned over the destruction of lives and property that “have been spiral in the past days of the week.” Hunkuyi said that the Senate should note “the indiscriminate and senseless killings and insecurity that have pervaded Kaduna and its environs even with the curfew imposed within the state.” He feared that the curfew while necessary to curb unwarranted movement could also be counter productive when majority of the people of the state were living from hand to mouth. He added that “Locking people at home can only solve one aspect of the problem, while it can lead to other crimes like robbery and theft.” He said that the Senate should be aware that the paramount ruler of Adara land, Angwan Adara has been taken hostage with six of his aides killed during a kidnap and hostage taking on the route from Kaduna to Kachia which is the headquarters of Adara Chiefdom. Hunkuyi prayed the Senate to prevail on the Kuduna State Government and the Federal Government to quicken the release of the paramount ruler of Adara who was wished away about a week ago. Senator Shehu Sani (Kauna Central) who officially announced his defection form the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) said that the killings were totally condemnable. Senator Danjuma La’ah (Kaduna South) described what is going on in Kaduna as “most unfortunate.” He said that those being killed in Zamfara State were Muslims while those being killed Kaduna State were Christians. La’ah criticized the action of the governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai for leaving that state without handing over to the deputy governor. He said that the governor should be held accountable for the mayhem that befell the state. The Kaduna south senators said that it is obvious that those behind the killings were  known. Senator Kabiru Marafa (Zamfara Central) in his contribution also said that behind the killings were “were well know,” Marafa noted that what is fueling the killings was that the perpetrators were never punished. The perpetrators, he added “kill and get away with their crime.” Senator Philip Gyunka (Nasarawa North) said that the problem should be traced to the door step of the governor of the state. He wondered why the El-Rufai should travel abroad with informing the state House of Assembly. Gyunka said that El-Rufai should be asked who he handed over to before he travelled. He said, “Maybe the governor got wind of what was coming and decided to travel.” Saraki said that those who spoke underscored that fact that perpetrators were not held accountable for their act. He said there was no doubt that there were problems that needed to be sorted out. He said that the Senate should schedule a date to discuss that issue with heads of security agencies. Senator Emmanuel Bwacha countered that a head of security agency invited to discuss the issue refused to honour the invitation “ and nothing was done to him.” Saraki agreed with the suggestion of the Senate leader, Senator Ahmed Lawan that the National Assembly leadership should engage the Executive on implementation of resolutions on national security.