A philanthropist from Bayelsa State, Chief Reuben Okoya, has lamented the flood disaster in the state. Okoya was perplexed when he recently toured camps built for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the state. The displacement was unprecedented and the suffering caused by the flood was unimaginable.  The IDP camps he visited in Ogbia, Amassoma, Boro Town in Kaiama and Igbogone were occupied by helpless victims, who cried and yearned for help. Okoya, who was a frontline gubernatorial aspirant in the last election in the state, was moved to donate N1million to the flood victims. Instead of buying relief materials such as mattresses and tissue papers, he decided to give cash to the victims. He reasoned that since the flood was receding, the victims, who came from far-flung riverine communities, would need money to fund their transportation back home. Therefore, the cash donation was seen as a proactive measure to lift the transport burden of the displaced persons. He said: “We have observed that the flood water is gradually receding. The next stage is how these internally-displaced people will go back home and be able to sustain themselves until they get back on their feet. “In flood matters, there are pre-flood issues and post flood issues. I think we have come to the point where we are dealing with post flood activities. How do these people go back to their homes that were flooded?  If they go back and fall sick, how do they respond? The private sector needs to come in and help them sort out all these”. At Ogbia IDP camp, Okoya saw that six pregnant women were delivered of babies. He felicitated with the women and promised to do his best to contribute to their up-keep. He observed that some children and elderly persons were sick. He immediately sponsored the infirm to a nearby hospital for treatments. Okoya said it was time for privilege indigenes of Bayelsa within and outside the country to come to the aide of the victims. He asked them to make contributions to alleviate the plight of the flood victims. “I am beckoning on all well-meaning Bayelsans both in Nigeria and in the diaspora to help Bayelsans in distress by donating relief materials and other forms of comfort. Their continuation will help the victims. “Particularly, it will help to ameliorate the post flood issues that will arise after the current flood disaster in Bayelsa. Government alone cannot shoulder the responsibility”, he said. Okoya further commended the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) for coordinating the different camps in the state effectively. He enjoined medical professionals and other relevant professionals in the state to give the people free services. He said: “I will try and see if I can meet some doctors and other medical professionals privately who can visit these camps with some medications and medical services. I am going to organize that with SEMA to ensure that as we go into post flood activities, everybody will be properly settled and return home safely without diseases. “I want to specifically thank SEMA. They have done excellently well. Today I have taken time to go to Bayelsa East, Bayelsa West and Bayelsa Central as a private individual to see what is happening. “It is tough when you see people suffering. In Ogbia we saw babies being born in the IDP camp. Two were born today. But it is gladdening to see that government is doing something”. On a permanent solution to the flooding in the state,  Okoya, who is an architect, called for a holistic approach involving scientific studies. He experts would also be needed to brainstorm and proffer solutions. Okoye noted that all drainages must be cleared and kept neat while all natural waterways should be identified and made to flow uninhibited. 