Chi Exotic Nectar has unveiled a new 150ml pack size for its hugely popular Pineapple Coconut product variant. The new pack size which promises to offer the same superior taste the brand is renowned and cherished for is a strategic move to provide distinctive refreshment to a wider spectrum of Nigerian consumers. Retailing at N50, the product line innovation comes at a pocket friendly price. The new 150ml Chi Exotic Pineapple Coconut pack is the result of deploying consumer insights and marketing intelligence to drive brand growth in a dynamic market environment. The Chi Exotic Pineapple Coconut 150ml pack size’s rich unique fruity blend offers an irresistible taste and distinctive refreshment that makes it ideal for indulgence and relaxation. Its superior taste and handy pack size is poised to connect with the preferences and healthy choices of a youthful consumer segment. According to a brand analyst with Pride Communications, Linus Nwokoji, the fruit juice segment market is becoming driven by competition, retail power and local consumer choices that increasingly determine brand and product line extension trajectory. ”The Chi Exotic Pineapple Coconut 150ml pack size is an innovative way to invigorate the market with its affordable N50 retail price. Its superior taste is sure to enable it trigger more demand, maintain market dominance, and as well as improve penetration in geographical markets,” he stated. Speaking on the introduction of the new pack size, Chi Limited’s Marketing Director, Mr. Probal Bhattacharya, said the Chi Exotic Pineapple Coconut 150ml pack size demonstrates the brand’s resolve to deepen its market reach by offering consumers an affordable option without compromising their quest for distinctive refreshment and indulgent taste. ”We are confident about the prospects of the new Chi Exotic Pineapple Coconut 150ml pack size. The 150ml pack size was introduced to align with the demand and choices of consumers by availing them the same healthy great tasting juice, but just for N 50 – which is both pocket friendly and value driven,” he added. The new Chi Exotic Pineapple Coconut 150ml pack adds to the currently existing 1Ltr, 500ml, 315ml, and 180ml pack sizes. It can be purchased in any Chi Shoppe, neighbourhood kiosks and departmental stores across Nigeria.