An umbrella body of Nigerian students, the National Union of Nigerian Students (NUNS) said it has suspended its planned national action against the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), for eight weeks. NUNS had earlier accused JAMB of extortion of Nigerian students seeking admission into higher institutions of learning. However, in a statement signed by its President, Comrade Salahudeen A. Lukman, NUNS said the suspension came after a meeting with the JAMB Registrar, Professor Isiaq Oloyede, who promised that, “All JAMB payable fees shall be reviewed downwardly in the next 8 weeks. According to NUNS, “Following an Extensive meeting held today at Ahmadu Bello University Zaria senate Building between Jamb Management ably led by Prof Isiaq O Oloyede and Students leaders which includes National Association of University Student’s NAUS Rep by Senate President Comr Falola Okikiola, National Association of Polytechnic Students NAPS rep by Senate President Comr Adekanbi Sunday, National Association of Nigerian Colleges of Education Students NANCES rep of Acting President Comr Badiru, Student Union Government Presidents and NUNS National Executives and Senate Principal officers, we have suspended our planned national action against JAMB. “The meeting which lasted for over 3 hours with heated debate, and comparison of fact and figure from students and the board. “The Registrar dispelled the allegation of being Arrogant Public Servant which he said is one of the major reason he offer to meet the student leaders delegates on campus instead of his usual office as this mark first of its kind in the recent. “It was resolved that Regularization shall end from this session 2017/2018. All JAMB payable fees shall be review downwardly in the next 8 WEEKS as the process has commenced. “On this note, the National Action is hereby suspended for 8 weeks after which the outcome of the National Council on education meeting where the review is to be decide will determine the our next line of action. “We sincerely appreciate the solidarity support enjoin from all and sundry on this struggle so far so good has well pledge to be more committed to the course of justice, equity and wellbeing of Nigerian Students at all time.” NUNS said.