There is no doubt that Bayelsa is heavily hit by flood. Many communities have been submerged. In fact, more than 70 per cent of the state is under water according to the state Governor, Mr. Seriake Dickson. Thousands of residents have been displaced and most of them are living in camps erected for internally-displaced persons. Schools have been closed till further notice. The flood water destroyed farmlands, fishing ponds and markets. There is hunger and starvation in the state. The government has moved in to ameliorate the situation. But the flood victims are also not alone following the intervention of few spirited individuals and companies to compliment the efforts of the state government. One of the individuals and philanthropist, who had shown love to the flood victims, is Mr. Keniebi Okoko. Okoko recently took truckloads of relief materials to the displaced families of Obunagha and other cluster communities in Gbarain in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. He donated several items worth millions of naira to the residents who lost their means of livelihood to severe floods. During the event on Saturday, many of the affected families lamented that their homes, farms and livestock had been taken over by the incessant floods. Okoko, who is a pastor and governorship aspirant, told the crowd of displaced persons that his gesture was not politically motivated. He said even before he indicated interest in politics, he had made it mandatory to attend to the needs of his people every year. The relief materials he gave to the affected victims were 200 bags of rice, 200 bags of noodles, mattresses, pillows, toiletries and other food items. The items were received by the leaders of the affected communities at the Obunagha community town hall.He said: “God has blessed me and there are less-privileged in our communities going through this suffering. So, it is only proper and morally right for me to do this and not about showmanship. Its impact on the lives of the people is what I am interested in. “It is wrong to use people’s suffering to score political points. It is wrong for people to use other people’s suffering to win votes. I understand the pains the people are going through. Their property has been destroyed and their means of livelihood affected. “I am not here to play politics, but to respond to the suffering of my people. God will punish me if I can help these people and I sit back and watch them lose everything. It is not a one-off thing. This will continue.” Speaking for the affected communities, the Paramount Ruler of Gbarain Clan, King Gabriel Akah, described the gesture as unprecedented and commended Okoko for his love for the people affected by the flood. “In 2012, what happened was worse than this, but we didn’t receive any help like this. Today, our son has chosen to help us. We thank him for this visionary action,” he said. In a similar gesture, the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) led by the Executive Secretary, NCDMB, Mr. Simbi Wabote, took relief materials worth millions of Naira to some of the camps in the state. Wabote conveyed two trucks of mattresses, food items, beddings, disinfectants and sundry items to the camps in Amasomma, Tombia and Igbogene. He appealed to oil firms to assist people displaced by flood in the Niger Delta region. Wabote implored oil industry operators, including oil servicing firms, contractors working in the region to come to the aide of thousands of flood victims who, were in need of food, clothing, beddings and toiletries. He said that NCDMB was complimenting the efforts of Bayelsa Government in providing the items to flood victims. Wabote noted that natural disasters present a challenge to the society to care for the vulnerable people describing humanitarian gestures as a universal phenomenon, He urged the victims to see the disaster as a phase that would pass and challenged them to be strong and optimistic to overcome their situations. Wabote, who handed the items over to leaderships of the camps urged them to ensure that the items were distributed to the victims in dire need. He said: “We are concerned about the impact of the ongoing flood on the people and as a socially responsible agency of government we are here to assist with these items, we appeal that the materials be distributed to the people who really need them. The number of people impacted from what we are seeing is so much and we felt the need to compliment the efforts of Bayelsa government”. Responding, Bayelsa Commisioner for Environment, Mr.Ebipatei Akpaingolo applauded the NCDMB for responding to the humanitarian challenges caused by the ongoing flood and urged others to emulate the board.