There is tension in Kaduna as a first class traditional ruler, Agom Adara, Mr. Maiwada Raphael Galadima who was abducted last Friday with his wife has been killed. The traditional ruler is believed to have been killed on Thursday and his body dumped at Kateri along Kaduna-Abuja expressway, before it was taken to St. Gerald Catholic Hospital in Kaduna early Friday morning. The Nation gathered that, the late Agom was shot twice in the head, as there were bullet wounds piercing through his ears and neck. Report also has it that the kidnappers collected N10 million ransom before killing the traditional ruler. The killing of the traditional ruler caused tension in Kaduna, as people on Friday morning started running back to their houses out of fear, even as fresh crisis was said to have started in Sabon Tasha area of the metropolis However, in a swift reaction to the brewing crisis, Governor Nasir El-Rufai has reinstated a 24-hour curfew on the metropolis and environs. The Nation recalled that Agom Adara was kidnapped last week on his way back to his palace in Kachia from Kasuwan Magani, where he and other leaders of the area alongside the state Governor went on assessment tour of crisis area. Unconfirmed report has it that, the kidnappers who had on the spot killed four of the chief’s aides while abducting him, had collected ransom of N10 million before killing him. Governor El-Rufai in a statement through his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Samuel Aruwan said the reinstated 24-hour curfew was a necessary step to help maintain peace as the state mourns Agom Adara. According to him, “The State Government has reinstated a 24-hour curfew on Kaduna metropolis and environs, Kasuwan Magani, Kajuru, Kateri and Kachia. The curfew is effective from 11am Friday, 26th October 2018 and will remain in force until further notice. “This is a necessary step to help maintain peace as we mourn the death of HRH Agom Adara, who we lost in the early hours of today to the criminals who abducted him last week. “The Kaduna State Government calls for calm in all our communities. The criminal elements who perpetrated this crime should not be allowed to divide us. “This is a struggle between good, decent, law-abiding people trying to uphold the peace and criminals who want to divide and destroy. It is not a struggle between religious or ethnic groups. Let no criminal find succor in faith or tribe. “Let us unite against every criminal activity. Let us stand together as human beings who have a right to live in peace,” El-Rufai said.