The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice Mr. Abubakar Malami, has described President Muhammadu Buhari’s commitment to respect to human rights and entrenching rule of law in Nigeria as unparalleled. Malami stated this in Awka, Anambra State during a visit of members of the Presidential Advisory Committee on Prerogative of Mercy to the Nigeria Prisons Service, Amawbia. The Attorney General, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Special Duties Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. William Alo, said the visit was primarily to identify and subsequently recommend inmates who were deserving of presidential pardon. He said, “The committee was inaugurated on August 28, 2018, to help President Buhari in the discharge of his responsibility of granting pardon to deserving convicts and ex-convicts as provided under Section one seven five of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He further explained that the committee was expected to be guided by rigorous criteria in ensuring that only deserving persons were considered for pardon. “The committee may also recommend a less severe form of punishment imposed on a convict for an offence among other mitigating measures as provided under the constitution,” Malami added. On her part, Attorney General of the State and Commissioner for Justice Barrister Uju Nwogu, lauded the compassionate disposition of the Buhari-led government, particularly in the periodic pardon of prisoners across the country. She disclosed that the state governor, Willie Obiano, had at the last Independence Day, granted pardon to seven prisoners, adding that such gesture were carried out four times in a year. “What you came here to do is in tandem with what the present administration in the state was doing. Governor Obiano exercises his power of prerogative of mercy four times yearly,” she added. Nwogu further praised the commitment of prison officers towards the cleaniness of the prison environment which had reflected on the neatness and healthy appearances of the inmates.