IN a move widely adjudged a turning point in the All Progressives Congress (APC), administrative politics, the ruling party disqualified two ministers serving in President Muhammadu Buhari’s cabinet from vying for their states’ governorship seats. The duo include Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu from Oyo State and his counterpart in the Women Affairs Ministry, Senator Aisha Alhassan, from Taraba State. Shittu and Alhassan were screened out by the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) at a time the party grappled with defections among its ranks and files to rival parties.      Responding to insinuations that the duo were arbitrarily screened out, the party’s National Chairman and head of its NWC, Adams Oshiomhole, argued that Shittu was disqualified  because it was discovered that he avoided the compulsory one-year National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) programme after graduation. Alhassan, on the other hand, was disqualified from contesting for Taraba governorship seat due to concerns regarding her loyalty to the party. The NWC, however, has no cause to rue its decision given that Alhassan resigned her ministerial appointment and also defected from the APC to the United Democratic Party (UDP), soon after her disqualification. Speaking at a press conference, in Abuja, on Friday, September 28, Oshiomhole said that the party’s decision to disqualify Shittu and Alhassan was in order to protect the APC’s core values. Oshiomhole said the party’s governorship screening committee was not convinced with explanations offered by Shittu that his service as a lawmaker in the Oyo State House of Assembly and minister was equivalent to the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme. According to him, Nigeria’s laws are clear on the issue. However, he said the Minister of Women Affairs, Alhassan, was disqualified because the party was not convinced about her loyalty. Oshiomhole said “As for the Honourable Minister of Women Affairs, she has issues that have to do with party loyalty. Our constitution is clear and it dictates that to contest elections or even hold office in the APC, you must be loyal to the party in every material concern. “From all she had said in the past and even her comments and general attitude during the screening, the NWC reviewed everything taken together and we arrived at the conclusion that she does not possess the level of loyalty that the APC requires for her to contest elections on our platform. “We made it clear when the defections happened that the APC may well benefit from these defections if it helps us to be more critical in terms of whom we give platform to contest elections and that there are core values that binds the APC together and they are non-negotiable. “The Electoral Act and the APC constitution forbid anyone from being a member of more than one political party at a time. You cannot be a member of APC and be a card carrying member of another party. “But when you have a situation where it would appear, based on what you know and based on what I know, that someone is probably APC in the day time, maybe for the purpose of retaining certain offices and they are PDP at heart. Or if they are not PDP at heart, they are actually and simply a follower of a one-man permanent presidential candidate…then we have the right to ask ourselves if these attitudes and qualities are characteristics of an ideal member of APC,” he said. There is no gainsaying that Shittu and Alhassan didn’t envisage their ordeal. The duo, like several other aspirants, dreamed of clinching their party’s ticket to vie for their states’ governorship seats until the dismal news of their disqualification. Earlier, an upbeat Shittu, in an interview, reportedly stated that he enjoyed the goodwill and support of large segments of the electorate. The former Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General of Oyo State allegedly urged  the APC to forget about its chances in the state if he is denied the governorship ticket of the party. The ministers’ problems with the APC, however, started before screening commenced for the party’s aspirants. While Shittu’s travails erupted in the wake of his NYSC certificate saga, Alhassan stirred the stirred the hornet’s nest when she granted a media interview, where she pledged her unflinching loyalty to Atiku Abubakar rather than her incumbent boss, President Buhari. Pundits aver that Alhassan’s her public show of support for former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar’ s presidential ambition last year might have earned her a spot in the black book of the ruling party. Thus when APC chairman, Oshiomhole, revealed plans to instill discipline among membership of the party and ensure that the party is supreme, on assumption of office, he certainly wasn’t set on a wild goose chase. The party’s disqualification of chieftains like Shittu and Alhassan would have been unthinkable in the past but they were excluded for reasons firmly anchored in APC’s constitution and rules, according to the party’s national chairman.