Meristem Securities Limited has emerged the winner of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) maiden Bull Award. The NSE Bull Award is reserved for any stockbrokage firm that leads in the ideas and ideals of transparency in the capital market, technology compliance and convergence, steady growth trajectory,  excellent track record to mention just a few. Announcing the award at a forum organised by the NSE in Lagos, Acting Head, Trading Business Division, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Oluwafemi Onifade said there were five clear criteria considered for the winner which include but not limited to the strength and position of the stockbroking firm in terms of volume and value traded shares overtime, efforts at encouraging financial inclusion and security of depositors. “Following the selection process, we selected Meristem Securities Limited as the winner for the maiden NSE Bull Award because they were the earliest adopters of technology and they have also generated incremental growth both in terms of fixed volume of shares they have traded over the years. They have also remained among the top five brokers on the Exchange consistently through the years,” Onifade said. While further justifying the selection of Meristem Securities as the deserved winner, Onifade said the broker has recorded many firsts in the sector including being the first to commence online trading platform through its now popular offering known as Meritrade as well as through its tireless efforts towards developing basic infrastructure to support trading activities across the nation’s capital market. Managing Director, Meristem Securities Limited, Mr. Saheed Bashir said the award was a recognition of the modest efforts of the company, which in the last few years has been bringing a lot of innovation into the market. According to him, there is no better way to cap the success of Meristem Securities than to be singled out for recognition by the industry regulator. “The award is a confirmation of our efforts and reward for what we have put into the market.  This is definitely going to spur us to do something much better going forward,” Bashir said. 