Former Minister of Education, Dr. Obi Ezekwesili, on Sunday  emerged the presidential candidate of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN) ahead the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)’s deadline for the submission of names of candidates contesting the 2019 general election. Ezekweseli who was the sole candidate was unveiled at the National Convention of the party which also returned incumbent National Chairman, Alhaji Ganiyu Galadima and other national officers for another four years. In her acceptance speech, Ezekweseli who is a former Vice President of the World Bank said the country has continued to develop backwards, adding that instead of making progress under the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, “unsustainable failure” has become the lot of Nigeria. She said 2019 will be a defining moment which provides opportunity to unite and galvanise the potentials of the country to build a great nation. The former Minister who is also the co-founder of the Bring Back our Girls movement  christened her campaign mantra as “Project Rescue Nigeria” noting  that it is a great tragedy that Nigeria instead of making progress is rather derailing and moving towards total economic collapse. She promised to offer equal opportunities to all Nigerians irrespective of tribe or gender, saying
” enough is now enough, we have decided that Nigeria will no longer accept a leadership of mediocre which has kept it down and allowed wanton and senseless waste of innocent lives.” “I bring you a message of hope for you, that I and millions of supporters will march in solidarity to ensure that Nigeria gets a new focused leadership in 2019,” she said. ACPN National Chairman,  Galadima, said his party is out to give hope to all Nigerians, adding that Mrs Ezekwesili “is the best among the current presidential candidates.” “We appreciate Mrs. Ezekwesili for pitching her tent with the party and we have resolved to work with her. “We have also resolved with you towards emancipation of Nigerians from the hands of bourgeoisie and hawks masquerading as Messiahs.” Apart from serving in different positions during the Olusegun Obasanjo administration, Mrs Ezekwesili, is best known for leading the movement that has been demanding freedom for all girls kidnapped by the Boko Haram terror group.