Outgoing Ekiti State Governor Ayo Fayose Friday evening handed over the instruments of office to the Head of Service, Dr. Gbenga Faseluka. He surrendered the handover note to Faseluka at a special valedictory State Executive Council meeting at the new Governor’s Office in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital. Fayose said history would be kind to him the way he managed the resources in trust for the people of the Fountain of Knowledge. That would be the last time he would preside over the cabinet meeting in his capacity as the state chief executive. The departing governor said he would be available to answer questions on who he ruled the state anytime he is called upon to do so. The special cabinet meeting was attended by traditional rulers, legislators, senior government officials and party leaders. In an emotion-laden voice, Fayose said: “What has a beginning must have an end. It is not the number of years spent but the quantity and quality of achievements. “I thank the people of the state for their cooperation and urge them to extend same to the incoming administration. “There should never be a vacuum; our priority in Ekiti must be discharge of our duties. “I’m a man who came, saw and conquered. I can’t finish all, I have done my best. “History will be kind on me as a man who has given his best to the people. I will remember all for your support, I bear no grudges against anyone.” Thanking the people of Ekiti for their support, Fayose urged them to cooperate with the incoming administration to take the state to greater heights. Earlier, Fayose had inaugurated the new Speaker’s Lodge named after the last occupier of the state number one legislative seat, Kola Oluwawole. Oluwawole was removed as Speaker on Thursday by the state lawmakers and was replaced with Adeniran Alagbada. Fayose urged the deposed Speaker to see his impeachment as a “price of leadership.” He told Oluwawole: “If I were you, in the interest of Ekiti, I will tell them to carry on. Everything works for good.”