Former Minister of State for Works, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, a former deputy governor of Plateau State, Mr Ignatius Longjan and  a former Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly,Mr. Femi Bamisile are among the candidates picked by the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of next year’s elections into the National Assembly. On its part ,the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) picked two serving members of the House of Representatives, Hon Jones Onyeriri and Hon Ezenwa Onyewuchi to vie for the tickets to represent Imo West and East Senatorial zones. Prince Adeyeye, Mr. Bamisile and a businessman, Mr. Sola Fatoba, were picked as consensus candidates by the APC hierarchy . Adeyeye had no opponent for the Ekiti South senatorial district while Bamisile is awaiting affirmation  as candidate for Ekiti South Federal Constituency 2. Fatoba became the candidate for Ekiti Central Federal Constituency 1 following the withdrawal of Dr. Jimlas Opeyemi Ogunsakin. Ogunsakin, announced his withdrawal at a news conference at APC State Secretariat, yesterday  before the commencement of voting in the National Assembly in all the 177 wards. The primaries to elect candidates for the three Senate and six House of Representatives seats were still ongoing at press time. Mr. Longjan, former deputy to Ex-Governor Jonah Jang got 972 votes to beat four other contestants including Dame Pauline Tallen during the primaries in  Plateau South Senatorial district held in Shendam. Longjan is seeking to replace Sen. Jeremiah Useni of the PDP, who has picked the ticket for the Governorship seat at the party’s primary held on Sept. 30. Detail of the results as announced by the electoral officer, Mr Abu Isa, showed that Nanven Nimfel came second with 786 votes, while Jibrin Banchir, Pauline Tallen and Stephen Dashe Te,el scored 41, 9 and 5 votes respectively. Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Justice Reform, Mrs. Juliet Ibekaku, , clinched the Enugu West senatorial ticket of the APC,defeating Chief Osita Okechukwu, Director General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON) and Chief Nweke Gbazuagu while former Enugu Speaker, Eugene Odo got the Enugu North ticket, and Mr Uchenna Ezemba won that of Enugu East.