The trial of alleged Kidnap Kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike also known as Evans before a Lagos High Court, Igbosere was stalled on Monday due to the absence of his lawyer from the court. At the resumed proceedings on Monday, the court was informed that Evans’ counsel Mr Olarenwaju Ajanaku sent in a letter that he would not be available and asked for an adjournment. Evans is facing two separate charges, bordering on conspiracy to kidnap, kidnapping and attempted murder, before Justice Adedayo Akintoye. In the first charge, Evans is standing trial alongside Joseph Emeka, Ugochukwu Nwachukwu and Victor Aduba. In the second charge, he is standing trial alongside Joseph Emeka, Linus Okpara and Victor Aduba. At the last adjourned date, a fifth prosecution witness, Izuchukwu Ezeuko, had told the court of how he travelled from Lagos to Eastern part of the country to drop $1 million ransom to the alleged kidnappers of his employer. Ezeuko, a manager in the firm of the victim of the alleged kidnap kingpin, Mr James Uduji, had made the revelation while giving evidence before Justice Akintoye. He had also told the court that he agreed to travel from Lagos to the east to drop the ransom in order to save his boss’ life. Ezeuko had narrated to the court how he paid $1 million ransom in two tranches of $800, 000 and $200,000 dollars to the kidnappers of his employer. Led in evidence in Chief by the Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice Lagos State Mr Adeniji Kazeem (SAN), Ezeuko had told the court that on September 7, 2015, his employer came to the factory at Agbara as he usually does, adding that at about 5.00pm he received a call that his employer who had left the factory for home was kidnapped. However, after some weeks of the alleged kidnap on October 10, 2015, he got a call from somebody on a private number, who said he should speak with his boss. “My boss then spoke to me and said if I want him alive, I should go to the east to deliver money to the alleged kidnappers. “I went to FESTAC and met Mr Edwin Uduji, the victim’s brother, who arranged the first $800, 000 for me to travel with. “On October 11, which was the next day, I drove down to the east with the victim’s elder sister, in the east, a voice gave us instructions on how to drop the money,” Ezeuko said. Another witness, Sergeant Kingsley Harold had also given evidence in the first charge in which Evans is standing trial alongside Joseph Emeka, Ugochukwu Nwachukwu and Victor Aduba, for alleged kidnap of Mr Donatus. Harold who was led by Dr Jide Martins said after Evans was arrested, he was asked to make a statement at the Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS)office Ikeja but Evans said he was not too good in writing. The case has been adjourned till October 24, for continuation of trial.