For 21 years, the world has tried in different ways to celebrate the legacy of the late Afrobeat legend, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti. The annual celebration of the music icon and political activist called Felabration provides the opportunity for fans to review what he stood for, and how valid and relevant is ideologies have remained to the socio political life of the society. As Felabration continues to bring to the fore, and teach people what the man stood for, by ensuring that we continue to fight the kind of battles he fought in largely better ways, To underscore this feat, Nigerian Breweries Plc, through one of its brands, Legend Extra Stout have identified with the legendary personae of Fela, and has joined sponsors of the iconic event, believing that by all ramifications, Felabration has become the most widely accepted of these platforms for celebrating all the great things that Fela stood for in the music industry. “The music fiesta brings back memories of a man with folded fists in the air, in bare torso, a partly painted face and signature tight trousers. Characteristic of the man, Fela, he greets a cheering crowd eager to hear him sing and have his queens move their energetic melanin bodies to the sound of his band. The crowd continues to cheer as he sings, and swings his body to different sides while stamping his left foot in rhythmic fashion, but those who know these stuff of Legends know that in those lyrics are clear messages for the people who need to hear them; “the brevity of a man willing to tell his story in its truest form and have fun while at it – that’s the man Fela was; that’s the Legend we remember,” say the brand promoters. Felabration was initiated by Yeni Kuti, Fela’s first child, in 1998, a year after his death, to get the world closer to the Fela spirit. This annual music festival runs for a week with different events from the concert to the dance and symposium. As the years go by, the festival features a different theme and continues to grow with more licenses signed across the world by fans of Afrobeats and those who truly believe in who and what Fela was. In the week of Fela’s birthday, which is when the festival is usually held, people will gather under the theme “Overtaking, Overtake”, a line coined from the 1990 hit ODOO – Overtake Don Overtake Overtake. This year, Legend Extra Stout brings excitement to the New Afrika Shrine and every other location in Lagos where people will gather not only to celebrate another edition of Felabration but Fela’s 80th birthday. For Legend, this is more than just an event sponsorship but an expression of the brand’s DNA and core values, which they say include, Authenticity, Courage and Freedom. Felabration provides the perfect opportunity for the brand to connect with young vibrant Nigerians who believe and have the courage to express their real selves. From October 15th until the 21st, fans will have the privilege to enjoy the rich taste of Legend Extra Stout as they celebrate Afrobeat and reminisce the stories Fela told in his days and how they are still relevant in today’s world. Over the years, Legend Extra Stout has brought fanfare to music lovers with previous editions of Felabration and the Real Deal Experience. Fun seekers coming to celebrate the Afrobeat king can do so in a relaxed environment where they can feel the richness of the Nigerian music and the amazing taste that Legend Extra Stout brings. Fela is a legend and will always be celebrated as one. Fans are expected in Lagos from around the world to honour the marks Fela made in the world music scene, as well as the inspiration he has given to younger talents coming out from Africa. In July, French President, Emmanuel Macron paid a visit to the Shrine to honour Fela, and there will be no surprise if he and other prominent persons like him join in the October celebrations, which will feature a symposium, debates, art exhibition, dance competition and a music concert. Some of the acts who have performed at the music concert include Femi Kuti, Asa, King Sunny Ade, 2Baba Lucky Dube, Nneka, Awilo Longomba, Lagbaja, Wizkid, Burna Boy and many more. A lot of fans will be looking out for moments like Wizkid’s electric performance with Femi Kuti in 2017.