A premium high strength cement from the stable of Dangote Cement Plc has been introduced into the Lagos market. The new product, BlocMaster, unveiled last Monday, was described by the Group Managing Director of Dangote Cement Plc, Joseph Makoju, an engineer, as the “final answer” to the yearnings and expectations of block and concrete makers who desire a product that could combine all the qualities of the existing range of cement in the market. He explained that BlocMaster is a product of intensive research, laboratory and field tests backed by regulatory authorities’ approval. Makoju stated that stakeholders in the value chain of cement were part of the research and the eventual formulation of BlocMaster. “We identify an opportunity and a gap that has to be filled and we went ahead to design and formulate the BlocMaster. In addition, we are giving the product out at the best price that gives the best quality,” Makoju said of the product, while assuring blockmakers and cement distributors of steady supply of the new product. Listing the qualities of the new product, the Dangote Cement Group Chief Marketing Officer, Oare Ojeikere, said Dangote BlocMaster is a premium high strength Portland limestone cement that gives users up to 50mpa in compressive strength after 28 days. He pointed out that the product is ideal for concrete applications that require very high final strength and durability. “BlocMaster has been tested, and proven to provide the best performance for all concrete applications that require rapid early strength, higher final compressive strength, and fast setting. It outperforms all other bagged cement products in Nigeria, and it is the cement of choice for all major construction projects,” he added. “We are the king in this business as we control more than 60 per cent of the cement market. We introduced to you 3X, 42.5R, we have Falcon, and now we are rolling out BlocMaster, and as the name suggests, we want the name to resonate anywhere cement is mentioned, that is why we called it BlocMaster,” Ojeikere explained. He said the unique selling proposition of the new cement is its unparalleled strength as it is 15 per cent stronger than any 42.5 grade in the Nigerian market. “It is 50 per cent stronger after one day. This means that blocks made could be quickly demoulded, and will be ready for sale faster, increasing the speed at which block makers can meet customer demand. “BlocMaster with its higher compressive strength will deliver stronger blocks at the same mix ratio as used currently, and can deliver more blocks, if same quality block as achieved currently is desired. BlocMaster is a high grade technical product that allows users achieve higher concrete strength qualities with less cement, lowering in the process, users’ concrete cost,” he said.