One hundred and  fifty young Nigerians are on their way to realising their dreams of entrepreneurship, thanks to a continuing partnership between Total E & P Nigeria Limited and other partners. Youths have   had their fair share of economic challenges in the last few years. The source of these challenges is lack of opportunity. The public sector, which youths have traditionally relied on to provide employment, cannot realistically create enough jobs to meet their demands. To this end, corporate leaders are rising to the challenge by promoting entrepreneurship as a long-term and viable means to providing alternative sources of jobs and economic growth. This is because entrepreneurs can create wealth, enable economic regeneration through innovation and create jobs. Given the benefits, Total E & P Nigeria Limited has made, as its top priority the creation of jobs by supporting the incubation and the spread of entrepreneurship. Several programmes, launched by the organisation is encouraging the development of an entrepreneurial mindset through schools, businesses, and events. Since 2016, 150 youths have been receiving training and other support services that will help them develop and implement their business ideas — and thereby contribute to Nigeria’s economic development. The applicants were between the ages of 18 and 35, having a business concept that focuses on Nigeria’s development in a variety of areas, including agriculture and general business. Speaking during the end of the Total E & P Nigeria Limited  ” Business Sustenance for New Entrepreneurs in Lagos,  the General Manager, Corporate Social Responsibility, Total Upstream, Mr. Vincent Nnadi, said Total is committed to empowering many youths through capacity development initiatives. Represented by the General Manager, Corporate Social Responsibility, Dr. Charles Ngeribara, Nnadi,  urged the beneficiaries to utilise the opportunity afforded them in becoming active agents of wealth creation. The Chief Executive, Toncia Energy Consulting, Prof. Godwin Chukwu, said the capacity building programme was meant for young Nigerians who have completed their tertiary education and are venturing into entrepreneurship. He said the workshop was designed to enable the young entrepreneurs to master technical skills crucial for business success, as well as gain self-development skills such as self-awareness, communication, leadership, and collaboration. According to him, 150 graduates have acquired the skills to start on their own and Total is providing the starter pack. “We believe that this is the first step to self-sufficiency that will lead to employment generation and wealth creation,” he said. Former President, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) Mazi Okechukwu Unegbu described the small and medium scale entrepreneurs as the drivers of the economy. While commending the gestures by Total, he said governments both federal and state have continued to concentrate on the small and medium scale entrepreneurs in order to empower the younger ones. The beneficiaries thanked Total for the programme.A participant, Saka Raheem, said he has gained a lot from the programme.  He is a cassava farmer in Oyo State. Benita Onagba, a bead maker, promised to put the acquired skills to good use and boost the economy.