– threaten Court action  Members of the House of Representatives were livid on Wednesday over the continued detention of a member, Abubakar Abdulahi Lado ( APC) Niger State. They urged the Police authorities to release the lawmaker within 12 hours or the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris will have to come to the Green Chamber to explain reasons for the incarceration of the lawmaker. Members of the House also agreed that since the collective privilege of the House had been infringed on by denying the Green Chamber of the services on the lawmaker, the House should go to court over the issue. The resolution of the House was sequel to a motion of urgent National Importance moved by a member, Toby Okechukwu ( APC Enugu) with the title: “Urgent release of Hon. Abubakar Abdulahi Lado representing Suleja Federal Constituency detained by SARS for the past 3 days.” While moving the motion the lawmaker said the House is aware of the detention of Hon. Lado by the Special Anti- Robbery Squad ( SARS). “The House is further aware of the continued detention for the past three days which action offends the Nigerian Constitution and amount to inhuman and degrading treatment . “The House is embarrassed that the intervention of the House leadership was rebuffed by the Nigerian Police ostensibly because it is only. The Governor of Niger state that can give instruction for his release .” He said the House was further briefed that the detention arose out of issues related to the APC Primaries which he (Lado) had ab initio notified the Police authorities of efforts to cause crisis by his opponents. “The House Is aware that the invitation of Hon. Lado was not through due process and therefore breaches the Legislative Powers & Privileges Act- which require notifying of presiding officer before the member is invited or arrested” he said. Members who spoke including the Deputy Speaker, Yussuff Lasun, Nnena Elendu-Ukejje, Betty Apiafi,Wale Raji, Segun Adekola, Sani Abdul, Albert Adeogun, all agreed that the police had breached the privileges of all, members by the action especially as it was not related to a criminal act. They wondered what could be happening to ordinary Nigerians if a lawmaker could be so treated,and concluded that the arrest and detention was meant to keep the lawmaker from participating in the primaries in the state. The Majority leader, Femi Gbajabiamila noted that the issue was a fight between supporters of Lado and his opponents and wondered how it became a SARS issue. He said he was informed at the SARS office that only the Governor of Niger state can give instructions for the release of the lawmaker.