Popular gospel artiste, Nathaniel Bassey, widely known for his song “Onise Iyanu”, is a blessing to our generation today. His song is known to heal the broken-hearted, touch lives and give strength to the weak. Looking at the song, “Onise Iyanu”, Bassey described God as “a God of awesome wonders”, who also shows much mercies to his children. It follows that anyone who is need of a miracle in his life can call on God, and he will be answered. It also means that if anyone sins against God, He is faithful and just to forgive, because he shows so much mercy. Born in 1978 in Lagos, Nathaniel Bassey had his higher education in the University of Lagos, where he studied international relations and politics for two years, before moving to London to study Politics. The singer studied music at Middlesex Summer School, and started his music career with a group of friends. They formed a group called ‘Spectrum 4 Jazz Group”. At a point in his life, Nathaniel Bassey was travelling all over the world, making money from music, but his orientation remained the same, that gospel music is an avenue to minister to God, and not just for  profit making. Bassey, who grew up in the church, joined the Rhodes Orchestra where he played the trumpet for two years. He had wanted to be an ordinary trumpeter, but every changed for him when he composed a song during the visit of the late wife of former President by Olusegun Obasanjo. He is a blessing to this generation. His songs glorify God and edify men. A look at the “Alagbada Ina” song describes this fact. In the song, God is described as clothed with fire, and shines brighter than the moon and stars. Comparing Nathaniel Bassey songs to other secular songs today, it is clear that the lyrics of his songs are edifying. There is a certain song where the artist was saying “I go give you banana”. It is clear that he was talking about sex. From observations, secular songs are just songs that reign for a short while, and then it loses its value. This is not so for Nathaniel Bassey, and other spiritual songs, as they are always ever-green. We have experienced many secular songs that have been banned.  “Science Student” by Olamide is an example. Secular songs corrupt the mind, and lead youths and young ones astray.  They are songs that focus on the pleasure of sex, drugs and alcoholism, which end up destroying the life of youths.