Food industry firm, PZ Wilmar, has stated its commitment to grow the Nigerian market and contribute to the growth of the economy. Its Category Marketing Manager, Chioma Mbanugo, said the firm will continue to provide Nigerians with healthy and tasty cooking options at affordable prices. Speaking during the unveiling of the firm’s new seasoning products under its existing brands, Mamador and Devon Kings in Ibadan, Oyo State capital at the weekend, she said good food enhances a healthy living which in turn improves productivity in work place. Speaking on the products, she said: “We ventured into the seasoning category to offer Nigerians much healthier, valuable and affordable options, something different from the norm, as our seasoning cubes all come in 5 grams as opposed to the 4 grams currently available in today market. By studying and analysing the needs of Nigerians as regards food products, we developed these seasoning variants to help fulfill our consumers’ nutrition needs by delivering on delicious and rich tastes. While both brands serve different purposes, they both deliver on the signature PZ Wilmar quality, and will certainly ensure that consumers can now create authentic dishes that are rich in taste, flavor and nutritional value. More importantly, these seasoning brands will be available to Nigerians at competitive prices, so everyone can taste the difference.” Present at the event were Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Oyo, Dr. Adeyoola Theresa Olaitan; Sales Director, PZ Wilmar, Ipsit Chakrabarti; Category Development & Activation Manager, PZ Wilmar, Toyin Popoola-Dania; and Brand Manager, Devon King’s, Bamise Oyegbami, amongst other notable persons. The Mamador seasoning came in three variants – Classic, Beef, and Chicken, while the Devon King’s seasoning comes in Classic Tomato, Beef, and Chicken variants – as they are set to compete in the Nigerian markets. Mamador 5g Seasoning Cubes boast health benefits as it contains 15 per cent Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) of Zinc and Iron, while Devon King’s 5g Seasoning Cubes gives provides Nigerians with tastier meals at a lower cost with its ‘added tomato’. Both brands of seasoning cubes give consumers 25 per cent more volume than other seasoning cubes at competitive prices. 