The issuance of Executive Order 6 and placing of 50 politically-exposed persons (PEPs) on travel ban will deal corruption a fatal blow, according to the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) and a human rights activist Dele Igbinedion. While CACOL praised President Muhammadu Buhari for signing the Executive Order 6, Igbinedion said those who have no skeletons in their cupboards have nothing to worry about. CACOL, in a statement by its Executive Chairman, Mr. Debo Adeniran, said tackling corruption required drastic measures. “When we view the precarious situation corruption has thrown this nation and its people, we would better appreciate why drastic and precarious situation calls for a measure of drastic steps/ actions,” it said. The group faulted those criticizing the Federal Government for the order, saying that most democratic countries of the world have such provisions in their statute books. CACOL said pending when all the laws needed to fight corruption are enacted and institutions strengthened, the President should be encouraged to deploy his powers such as the Executive Order 6. “We commend the leadership of Muhammadu Buhari for taking advantage of such provisions and enjoin him to judiciously and expeditiously utilize same in a manner that is completely devoid of witch-hunting or any form of undue flagellations, while, constantly, holding our public office holders to account, irrespective of whose ox is gored,” CACOL said. Igbinedion said the President’s action was “courageous, commendable and salutary”. To him, the President has dealt a fatal blow to corruption, corrupt people, corrupt tendencies and corrupt enrichment from political office. “It has been suggested that the Order 06 is unconstitutional, restrictive of human liberty and ultimately illegal. But all that posturing and postulation has been wiped away, broken-hearted, by the recent decision of the Federal High Court in Abuja. “It is now accepted, subject to any contrary decision of a higher court, that the Presidential Executive Order 06 is valid, constitutional, legal and applaudable. It is also enforceable pronto, and enforce it, the President has ordered. Amen. “Some have also claimed that the Order is targeted at political opponents. But those traducers of the mindless position fail to explain how their argument stands up in the presence of apolitical persons and even members of the President’s political party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) on the list. “But whatever the argument for or against, the Presidential Executive Order does not and cannot affect ordinary, hardworking Nigerians. So, fear not, my friends. For too long have corrupt people and their corruption held Nigeria and Nigerians by the jugular. It is now uhuru! “Only corrupt former and present political office holders need to tremble in fear over Order 06. Anyone who is not corrupt should walk tall, happy and rejoice. Indeed, a Daniel is come to judgment,” Igbinedion said.