The Rotary Club of Abuja Maitama District 9125 has honoured Rotarian Winifred Ogbebo as the 7th President, Rotary Club of Abuja. Miss Ogbebo, a management staff of Abuja-based Leadership newspaper, joined the club when the offer came, seeing it as an opportunity to reach out more to the less privileged in the society. To her, it is a passion to be among great minds in rendering service to the nation. Nothing, she says, gives her peace like seeing some other person happy and satisfied. As an undergraduate, she was a radio presenter in the Edo State Broadcasting Service (EBS), and worked during her youth service with the Rivers State Radio Service. Ogbebo said being a Rotarian moulded her life completely, especially about philanthropy. “It fills you with peace knowing that someone out there has the pleasure of living because of you,” she said. ”I joined Rotary more than seven years ago. It is a humanitarian organisation that one can key into to access the world. You don’t need to have millions of naira to help people. Rotary is about different professionals coming together to give their time, talent and treasure. “We call it the three Ts. Time, Talent and Treasure just to impact lives. It is non-religious, non-political. It is for people willing to assist humanity. As a Rotarian you should dedicate your time to assisting humanity. We work to ensure peace in the society.” Outgoing President, Victoria Nkem Orakwe said she mounted the realm of leadership as the President of Rotary Club Abuja Maitama on July 1, 2017 with so much zeal, willingness and expectation.  Orakwe encouraged the incoming president to work as a team with others. Working as a team, she says, was really helpful during her tenure as the President. Orakwe said, “It was indeed a very busy and taxing Rotary year as the club engaged in all rotary six areas of focus namely, water and sanitation, basic education and literacy, disease prevention and treatment, children and maternity health care, economic and community development and peace and conflict prevention and resolution. “Rotary Club Abuja Maitama won five awards from the district governor as a result of the club’s outstanding performance during the 2017/2018 Rotary year. This is a new rotary year and I urge every club member to join our President Rotarian Winny Ogbebo to be the inspiration to our society through Rotary so as to retain and sustain this epic of success which the club has attained.” Director General, National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Olusegun Runsewe urged  Nigerians to imbibe the Rotarian way of life by assisting humanity and living in peace with all, He noted that the Rotary four way test of  is it true, is it fair to all concerned, will it build good will and better friendship and will it be beneficial to all concerned should be all Nigerians watchword. “This can apply to relationship with others in the home, office and our business environs. The Rotarians are truly peace ambassadors in the society. Two months ago Rotarians treated 1.2 million people in Afghanistan free of charge. They are completely committed to clean water and provide amenities for the society where ever they find themselves. No one has come to this world with anything and they are not taking anything back. The time to stop celebrating mediocrity is over. With Rotary peace will return fully and there will be love amongst us worth celebrating,” Runsewe said.