A chieftain of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in Ogun State, Dr. Femi Majekodunmi, on Thursday re-united with former party, All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. Majekodunmi, who served as the Caretaker Chairman of ADC in Oyo State, said his resignation of membership of ADC is with immediate effect, made this known in a  release to reporters in Abeokuta, the state capital. The medical doctor – turned politician also disclosed that he has withdrawn from the Ogun Central senatorial race under the platform of the ADC and from any real or imagined membership of the party. He added that his decision to withdraw from the race for the Ogun Central Senatorial seat as a mark of respect to Governor Ibikunle Amosun, stating that he is now fully back to the APC at his ward in Abeokuta South local government after due consultations with his family members, relations and political associates within and outside Ogun State. “My loyalty is now fully with APC,  I hereby confirm that there is no more divided loyalty and will henceforth fully resume my activities in APC starting from my Ward 1, Abeokuta South. “After due consultations with my immediate family, political leaders and teeming supporters across the length and breadth of Ogun State and all over the country, I have decided to resign my membership of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) and return back to the All Progressives Congress (APC). “This decision is the best I could take at the moment given the political situation in our dear state, Ogun State. Indeed,  it was in the best interest of the people of the state as I believe that for now it is the APC that is in better position to continue to deliver the dividends of democracy to the people,” he stated. He however said his leaving the ADC does not mean its members are his enemies, stating that as a politician that has served the state in different capacities, he will continue to make himself available to serve the people irrespective of his returning to the APC.