There are several factors involved in fleet management making it an accurate science. You may think fleet management is only tracking the vehicles of a company in real time but in reality it is so much more. It covers a wide range of functions which includes vehicle maintenance, diagnostics, telematics, speed management, driver management, vehicle safety and etc. Fleet management can be used for commercial vehicles such as trucks, vans, cars as well as other assets. It improves the productivity and efficiency through smart management of the operation. The overall transportation costs and staff expenses can also be reduced through the automation that comes with fleet management. According to GPSWOX – fleet management relies on GPS tracking and each vehicle is fixed with a tracking device. The trackers run on GPS but in some cases are also based on cellular networks. These devices can not only track the location but also speed, direction and other components using the tracking network and broadcast server. These are some of the things possible with GPS fleet tracking systems: • Tracking the vehicle in ream-time with continuous diagnostics data which provides not only tells the location but also the condition of the car. • GPS trackers offer information on the altitude, GSM area code, geocoding, cumulative idling, emergency button status and the GPS satellites in view. • GPS tracking is useful for small fleets, enterprise vehicles as well as assets that are battery driven or stationary. • The GPS tracking platform is easy to use and does not require intensive training.
GPS fleet management can also integrate traffic updates providing the shortest routes to avoid the rush or construction sites on the way. • You can also receive reports on the oil change, tune-up and other scheduled vehicular maintenance. • Safety and security of the fleet increases as GPS devices prevent theft and allow for constant surveillance. • The response time for vehicles is reduced and it increases the efficiency of service related functions. • Vehicles run smoothly for a longer period of time due to the maintenance and tune-ups that can be scheduled through the diagnostic reports. Alerts are sent through the system allowing the units to respond quickly to the problem and send the vehicle repair saving time and money. • The operating costs are also reduced as less staff is required. • Fuel costs are significantly lower due to the efficient management of the vehicles. • Your fleet will be more environment friendly because of the reduced carbon emissions due to fuel consumption. • Accurate tracking of the fleet and logging of data can also provide your company tax breaks. The advantages of a GPS fleet management system outweigh the challenges and the problems listen above can be remedied with the right equipment choice and understanding of its applications. To make the GPS trackers cost efficient the equipment manufacturers provide consultancy on upgrading the system through an in-depth analysis of your current operations. They explain how GPS tracking technology can enhance the efficiency and provide a fair assessment with guidelines on how to use the equipment properly. Satellite tracking may be far more expensive but it is critical when the vehicle is operating in remote environments as it sends information without any interruption. GPS tracking when combined with the radio frequency transmission is a foolproof tracking method. The continuous feed can sent signals through inside a building, from basements and even garages.