Although Mathematics competition requires speed, accuracy and precision, intervention in the form of God’s favour, mercy and compassion also play enormous advantage at critical moments of the competition. This was the submission of Favour Okarike, a student of Graceland International School, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, who scaled the semi-final hurdle in the on-going 2018 Cowbellpedia Secondary School Mathematics Television Quiz Show, sponsored by Cowbell Milk, the leading brand of Promasidor Nigeria Limited. Favour, who had a perfect score in the qualifying examination held in February, explained that God’s favour came to her help at the critical moments where her courage almost failed her. “I have prayed and prepared but getting to the stage is a different ball game. But I was confident that if my human ability wanes, God will step in and He did. I am so grateful,” she said Favour also looks forward to meeting more of her schoolmates in the finals. “I am grateful for the journey so far. Out of 108 that started, I have stepped into the final lap. God who has started well with me will complete the process favourably,” she told newsmen outside the studio in Lagos. In the first semi-final thriller in the junior category in Lagos last weekend, Favour was joined by Splendour Nwankwo, a student of the Jesuit Memorial College, also of Port Harcourt, Rivers, to march into the final ahead of four other contestants. The other participants whose journey ended at the semi-final were Benny Sampson-Uche, Adrea Eboagwu and Ifeanyi Anyokuall of Graceland International School, Port Harcourt, Rivers State; and Jonathan Okonkwo of Baptist High School, Naraguta-Jos, Plateau State. Splendour was grateful to God and his teacher for getting to the home stretch of the competition. “It was actually tough and stressful. I pray to win and eventually become the 2018 champion. My parents will be very happy,” he said. The challenge in the senior category was also exhilarating when Jessica Austine, a student of Federal Government Girls’ College, Owerri, Imo State; and Isinkaye Praise of Federal Government College, Niger State, outsmarted four of their colleagues to land in the final. The other contestants in this group who are now out of the competition included Joshua Mark of Nigerian Christian Institute, Uyo Akwa Ibom State; and Shuaibu Abdullahi from Nigerian Tulip International College, Damaturu, Yobe State. Others were Nyamali Luke of Federal Science and Technical College, Uromi, Edo State; and Victor Warikobo-West, a student of Biedomo Premier School, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. Praise, who dropped off at the preliminary round of the junior category two years ago, prays that she clinches the ultimate prize this time around. “It is great to get to this stage. I really thank God, but my ultimate ambition is to be the 2018 Cowbellpedia champion,” she said. Jessica, a second timer in the competition, scored 95 percent in the qualifying examination. According to her, Mathematics is fun, and she is thrilled participating in the competition. “If I win, I will be happy. But if I do not, life continues,” she explained. To celebrate the landmark 20th anniversary of Cowbell and Mathematics in Nigeria, Promasidor increased the prize money by 100 percent, which will make winners in both categories receive N2 million each plus an all-expenses paid educational excursion outside the country. The first and second runners-up will receive N1.5 million and N1 million respectively. The teachers of the top prize winners will be awarded N500,000, while those of the first and second runners-up will receive N400,000 and N300,000 respectively. Also, each of the winning schools will be presented with Mathematics text books, desktop computers and printers. As it has been every weekend, the 2018 Cowbellpedia Secondary Schools Mathematic TV Quiz will be aired to millions of viewers on DSTv Africa Magic Family Channel, AITNetwork and other six television stations across the country. Just as this year’s edition is getting to conclusion, preparations have commenced for next year’s competition. The organisers have already opened the 2019 Cowbellpedia registration portal and urge secondary school students across the country to register.