Germany’s coalition parties on Tuesday agreed on a new immigration law to attract more skilled workers from countries outside the EU. The new immigration law under a politically risky push was agreed on in order to fill a record number of job vacancies and stabilise the public pension system. Chancellor Angela Merkel, hard line Interior Minister Horst Seehofer and Social Democrat Labour Minister Hubertus Heil reached a compromise deal that removes labour market hurdles for all non-EU citizens with job qualifications and German language skills. The three coalition parties agreed in the outline of their law, seen by Reuters that companies will be allowed to recruit foreign workers in all professions, regardless of an official list of sectors suffering labour shortages. The paper also proposes that the government will no longer insist that companies give preference to German citizens in filling vacancies before looking for non-EU foreigners. Foreign graduates and workers with vocational training will also get an opportunity to come to Germany for six months to look for a position if they meet certain job qualifications and German language requirements. They also have to prove that they have enough financial resources so they will not depend on welfare benefits during their stay in Germany, the parties agreed. The compromise deal does not include the so-called ‘Spurwechsel’ (lane change) proposal which would allow refugees living in Germany to shed their asylum seeker status if they find a job and learn German. Seehofer, whose CSU party fears losing voters to the far-right in a regional election later this month, was against such a provision because he feared it would encourage future immigration by asylum seekers without the right skills. “We maintain the principle of separation of asylum and labour migration,” the outline of the immigration law reads. However, the parties said that they would define a residence status for well-integrated refugees who could not be deported and were able to earn their living on their own in order to give employers and migrants more security when planning. Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said that the Germany new immigration law will make the upturn in Europe’s largest economy more sustainable and increase its growth potential. “With today’s agreement, we have made it possible for the economic upswing to continue without an abrupt end, to increase and exploit our growth potential, and to strengthen our competitiveness as well as growth and prosperity. “With this, we can stimulate additional economic growth by several tenths of a per cent. This is quite a lot,” he said during a news conference in Berlin.