The Senate on Wednesday asked the Federal Government to intensify efforts aimed at finding the missing Director of Administration of the Nigerian Army, Major General Ibrahim Alkali (rtd). Alkali was reported to have disappeared in Dura Du area of Plateau State on Monday, September 4, barely two months after his retirement from the army. The upper chamber also urged the government to take steps to locate other missing Nigerians. It prayed the government to set up an investigative panel of inquiries to unravel the circumstances surrounding the dumping of cars found in ponds of Lafande community in the Du District of the state. The Senate asked the government to identify possible suspects in the dastardly act and ensure that the perpetrators face the full wrath of the law to serve as deterrent to other criminally-minded persons in the strongest possible terms. The resolutions followed a motion, on “The disappearance of retired Major General I. M. Alkali”, sponsored by Senator Mohammed Hassan (PDP Yobe South) at plenary yesterday. Senator Hassan in his lead debate noted that the wife of General Alkali, Salamatu had on September 4, alerted the Army authorities that her husband who departed Abuja in the morning of the previous day for Bauchi had not reached his destination. He said that Salamatu said that her husband told her at about noon of the previous day that he arrived Jos safely and would be passing Du road to Bauchi. He said, “That was the last communication she had with her husband until this moment as his where-about is presently unknown”. Hassan said that “following his disappearance, the Nigerian Army, with the support of the Nigeria Police, Department of State Services, Fire Service and other security agencies embark on intensive search vide tracking of his phone up to when it was switched off as well as relying on tips-off”. He explained that when earlier efforts of the Army and other security agencies didn’t yield the desired result, a pool of water in Lafande community was drained amid protest by the local women, who claimed that it was their only source of drinking water. The lawmaker lamented that “after two days of draining of the pond, a bus was found in it alleged to belong to a new young man that had earlier disappeared along that road, while on 29th September, 2018 at about 6.00pm, a Toyota car with registration number MUN 670 AA belonging to Major General I.M. Alkali was pulled out of the water with some of his belongings without any trace of his person, while another car, Rover was recovered from the pond whose owner disappeared in 2013”. He said that concern over reported disappearance of numerous commuters along the Du axis for the past years, especially Bauchi onward bound travellers, should be addressed urgently. The incident, according to him, raises some pertinent questions, including “Why did the people from Du community refuse to assist the security agencies during the search.” “Why did the people (women) try to prevent the Army from draining the water.” “Why didn’t the community raise a formal complaint from the local government to the state government about the draining of the water”, and “Who were those spreading false information about the circumstances of the disappearance of Major General I.M. Alkali and what were their motives”. Senate President, Bukola Saraki commended Senator Hassan for the motion and urged the security agencies to intensify their efforts in finding the retired Army officer and other missing Nigerians.