A Senatorial aspirant for Kogi West Senatorial district on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and retired Director of the Department of the State Services (DSS), Dr. Williams Toyon Akanle has said the has no intention of leaving the party despite the alleged  injustice done to him during the Senatorial primaries. Dr. Akanle said in a statement made available to The Nation that as a loyal party member, he was exploring all internal mechanisms provided by the party to address the wrong done to him by sending a petition to the Appeal  Committee set up by the party. He said it is a wishful thinking of his political detractors to say that he was considering dumping the party, especially at this stage when the country was preparing for the general  election and after contributing so much to the growth and development of three party. He said those spreading rye rumour were threatened by his rising political profile, adding that orchestrators of the propaganda have at various times, through the use of social media and other platforms declared that he had decamped, first to the Social Democratic Party (SDP), then to the African Democratic Congress (ADC) and lately to the Accord Party. While admitting that he had issues with the party arising from the party primary of 3rd October, 2018, he said he prefers  to go through the internal crisis resolution mechanisms, staying that he had already began the process. He said “For the avoidance of doubt, I hereby state emphatically that I still remain a bonafide member of the APC. Let me also state categorically that I do not plan to abandon the party, after contributing immensely to its growth and development. “Not at this critical stage of the party’s political evolution and preparation for the 2019 general elections. Notwithstanding the fact that I have issues with the party arising from the sham of a purported party primary of 3rd October, 2018 in which I contested for the Kogi West Senatorial seat. “As a loyal party member, I have complied with the party’s internal mechanism for seeking redress by forwarding a petition to the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the National Appeal Committee headed by Professor Oserheimen Osunbor. “My purported defection from the APC is nothing but the mere wishful thinking of my political detractors who will not stop at anything to achieve their inglorious political goals. “I therefore call on all my ever loyal supporters and well-meaning members of our great party at all levels, to ignore such misinformation and whatever it is intended to achieve. There is no iota of truth in all this and should therefore be out rightly disregarded.”