Governorship aspirant under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Kwara state, Alhaji Shuaib Yaman has said that the formula for the party to win 2019 election is for APC to pick its candidate from Kwara north. Alhaji Yaman, a political associate of President Muhammadu Buhari, said the district’s numerical strength with other parts of the state is capable of giving APC victory at the poll. The aspirant told reporters yesterday in Ilorin, the state capital, adding that “the last election the central had 41 percent, the north is acknowledged to have done 20. By the way Ilorin should have the highest population as it is the state capital. It is made up of people from all parts of the state and even non indigenes. “As it is shown in the voting pattern in the last election that Ilorin had 41 percent, whether we like it or not Bukola Saraki will take a chunk out of that. Today go to Kwara North we are almost 95 percent APC. “We are coming together for the first time and the Emirs have announced that the people they represent are all APC. If you take our own 30 percent which is original. Bukola Saraki will take 50 percent of the 41 percent of the Kwara central leaving about 20.5 percent. Which reasonable political calculation would pick 20.5 percent instead of 30 percent that is assured.” He is confident that APC would pick its governorship candidate from the northerner part of the state. “The PDP short-changed this country for so long using autocratic means in selecting the candidates. This is precisely what APC has come to change. “APC is a party based on fairness and justice. I can not even dream it that APC will not give the slot to Kwara central,” he added. Justifying why the north whoud produce the next governor of the stat, he said: “I happen to come from Kwara North and we strongly believe that given the singular reason of giving every part of the state a sense of belonging, should be the one to produce the next governor of the state. And it is simple. Kwara central has had it for twelve good years. Late Admiral Mohammed Lawal for four years, Bukola Saraki had eight years making a total of twelve. “Now the Kwara South is almost completing its eight years. And it is significant here that one individual is aspiring from the south. It means that there must be a sense of fairness from this people from the south. It must be sense of justice that making any of them not to come out for the governorship seat for 2019 elections. “Every other part of this state must be given its own due place of recognition. And i say it all the time. How will Kwara central justify it that they have had it for twelve years? And they will now come and appropriate another eight years that belong to the north making theirs 20 and on what pedestal will anybody stand to say the northerners should not have. Are we sub-humans or we are not qualified to rule or that we are slaves? In whatever way we look at it, it is unjustifiable. “Take Nigeria as an instance, northerner Nigeria as it is constituted has got enough numerical strength to keep the presidency of the country in perpetuity.  But for every part of the nation a sense of belonging, the north has conceded that it should rotational and it has become a convention. “The other argument i hear that it is not in the constitution that we must rotate. There are even constitutions that are not written. The British Constitution is just a Charter. It is not written. “The foundation for peace is justice. In this stage we believe what is just is just and what is fair is fair. It is the turn of the Northerner Kwara to produce the governor. Anybody giving any other story is saying it on selfish stand.