The All Grand Alliance Party (AGAP) joined other political parties in the country to hold its primary election where elective political office seekers were elected for various positions. The Abia state chapter of the party was not left behind as it also elected the people that they are going to field to vie for different positions in the state with other political parties during the 2019 elections. Speaking with newsmen in Umuahia, the national chairman of the party, Okey Chikwendu thanked members of the party for their support to the party and assured them that the party will not fail them. Chikwendu extolled party members for their doggedness in seeing to the actualization of the ideals of the party, stressing that their party has excellent ideas which it’s elected officers will execute to the letter when elected. The national chairman who was represented by a national officer of the party, Pastor Ifeanyi said that the party has come to stay in the state in particular and Nigeria in general, adding that they will surely make indelible impact during the forthcoming elections. Chikwendu praised the party’s screening committee for their honesty and forthrightness in producing credible candidates, saying, “AGAP as a party does not entertain miscreants”. He said that during the primary which was witnessed by INEC officers saw the emergence of Onuoha Uko Igwe as the gubernatorial candidate of the party, Chigozie Ajuzieogu emerged as Osisoma south state constituency for the house of assembly among others. He urged all candidates of the party for the coming elections to be fearless and courageous as members are solidly behind them, adding that they should not sell their votes for any amount. Responding on behalf of other candidate, the governorship candidate, Igwe an Item born politician promised not to let the party down, saying that enough is enough in the political rascality of the state. Igwe said that if elected, as the governor of the state, that he will bring smiles on the faces of Abians and advised eligible voters not to sell their votes rather to vote according to their conscience.