A professor of Ceramics and Industrial Art at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), Okpan Kalu Oyeoku, has lamented the death of ceramics firms despite high demand for ceramics products in the country. While delivering the institution’s 143rd inaugural lecture titled: Growing the ceramics industry in Nigeria, Prof Oyeoku said in the past 15 years, the sector had gone moribund following what he called an “unabated epidemic”. Notable among the liquidated ceramic companies, according to Oyeoku, are Quality Ceramics in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, Modern Ceramics, Umuahia, Abia State, Ceramics Manufacturers in Kano State, Richware Ceramics in Lagos State. He added that Plateau State Ceramics is stillborn The companies, he said, folded up despite the fact that 100 per cent of their raw materials could be sourced locally. “Furthermore, the trouble with Nigerian ceramics cannot be anchored on technical or technological handicap because the industry can be sustained on low level technology”, the Don said. Oyeoku identified lack of favourable industrial climate and harsh government policies, especially in land acquisition, sourcing of capital base and patronage as setbacks to the growth of ceramics industries in the country. He further blamed the woes of the industry on poor management, resulting from over employment of administrative staff and bureaucratic interference which affects the production and distribution of ceramic products. Oyeoku however identified Nigergrob and Royal Ceramics as part of the few ceramic industries that were still in business. “This is probably because they are run by Chinese and Indians and not Nigerians,” Oyeoku cited as the reason for their survival. The don called on all stakeholders, including the government, entrepreneurs, ceramists, industrial chemists and engineers to initiate a rescue operation that would save the surviving companies from collapse and revive the moribund ones. While commending the government for setting up Raw Materials Research Centres across the country, which, he said, had helped in the development of ceramics technology, Oyeoku called on the government to exempt young ceramics industries from paying company tax for the first five years of operation to allow the companies stabilise and amortise investment loans. He said: “Government should not narrow the local content law enforcement to oil industry but should extend it to all areas of development, including the ceramics industry where 100 per cent local content input is available.” Prof Oyeoku called for a synergy between universities, research institutions and the ceramics industry in order to harness the potentials of the ceramics industry. “What we go to India to import, we have here in Nigeria; but massive importation is still going on because there is a missing link between the industries and the universities and the research institutes,” he said, adding that Nigeria had spent over $600 million dollar in the importation of ceramics in 2018.