More than 53 companies and individuals were at the weekend honoured for their performance and contributions to the development of the Nigerian capital market. At the maiden edition of the CAMCAN Nigeria Capital Market Performance Awards 2018 in Lagos, Nigeria’s best-performing quoted companies across the sectors were celebrated for their resilience and value creation. The companies were assessed based on their audited report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2017. In the individual awards category, CAMCAN acknowledged the contributions of Mr. Tony Elumelu, chairman of Heirs Holdings Limited, a major investor in United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc; Transnational Corporation of Nigeria (Transcorp); United Capital Plc and African Prudential, all listed on the NSE. His price was received at the occasion by Mr. Valentine Ozigbo, Managing Director, of Transcorp Hotels Plc; and Mrs. Owen Omogiafo, Executive Director at Transcorp Plc. Besides honouring all past Presidents of CAMCAN, including Gbenga Agbana, whose wife received his posthumous award; the organizers also honoured past Directors-General of the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC), Dr. Suleyman Ndanusa and Musa Al-Faki; as well as Apostle Hayford Alile, former Director General of the NSE; as well as his successor, Prof  Ndi Okereke-Onyiuke. The UBA was also recognized for living true to its name by taking and hoisting the Nigerian flag in 20 countries across the African continent, thereby diversifying its earnings and profit base, among others. The bank was represented by Ugo Nwagodoh, Group Chief Finance Officer and Abiola Razak and the Head, Investors’ Relations Dangote Cement Plc, the biggest company at the Exchange emerged the most profitable with its net profit of N204.25 billion in the industrial goods sector as well as the entire market. Dangote Cement beat Zenith Bank Plc, which had emerged best in its sector with its N177.61 billion and Guaranty Trust Bank which was second in its sector after reported N170.67 billion. Dangote Cement also showed that it was not just about being biggest or most profitable, it emerged most efficient stock in its sector with 25.35 per cent net profit margin, which measured how much of each Naira of revenue is converted to net profit by dividing net profit by turnover and multiplying it by 100. It however came behind Seplat Petroleum Development Company, which clinched the overall prize with 58.66 per cent, after winning in the oil and gas sector. Diamond Bank won the award for the stock with best price-to-book value both in its sector and the entire market; while Total Nigeria was best in return on investment (RoI) for market-wide; while MRS Oil won in the earnings yield category. Nestle Nigeria however won the prize for best RoI in its consumer goods sector, as well as the entire market for the period. In the consumer goods sector, Dangote Sugar Refinery, another member of the Dangote Group emerged most profitable with N39.78 billion; followed by Nestle Nigeria’s N33.72 billion.