Provost of the Federal College of Education, Technical (FCET) in Umunze, Anambra State, Dr Tessy Okoli, has urged leaders of the school’s alumni association to work together for the progress of the school and strive for excellence, which she said is the school’s watchword. Dr Okoli gave the advice during the convention and swearing-in event of the association at the Dr Alex Ekwueme Auditorium on the main campus. According to her, alumni members are part of stakeholders in the college, and, as such, the association has a vital role to play in the development of the college. She said the association was the bridge between the past, present and future students of the school. Okoli added: “Your participation in the affairs of the alumni association of the college would bring a wealth of experience from both the academicia, politicians and businessmen all geared towards uplifting and developing the school. As alumni members, who have passed through the college, you are best placed to offer advice on the relevance of the curriculum to the demand of the professional workplace as well as volunteer your services for seminars and workshops.” The provost urged the alumni to support the school with resources that could be used for improving infrastructure, equip the main library and laboratories. According to her, members of the alumni association can offer professional services to the college for free of charge. The college Registrar, Sir Augustine Udensi, urged the executives to carry every member of the association along in the affairs of the association and always be good ambassadors of the College. In his valedictory speech, the outgone National President of the association, Comrade Ejimofor Chibuike Emmannuel noted that the major challenge of the association was the lack of commitment of members, and the lukewarm attitude of members towards  alumni affairs. President of the association, Laeticia Ugwu Udodiri, praised her predecessor for the “great work” to uplift the association, calling on members to join hands with executive members with the aim of repositioning the association. Other members of the executive include the Vice President, Okechukwu Nzewuike; National Secretary, Innocent Nwafor; Financial Secretary, Nnaemeka Nwafor; Assistant National Secretary, Peter Ewenike; National Treasurer, Chukwudi Ogbonna; National Provost, ThankGod Ezidimma; Public Relations Officer (PRO), Benjamin Anya and Director of Welfare, Maureen Nwenyi. Mr Emma Onwu administered the oath of office on the executive members.