The Petroleum Training Institute (PTI) in Effurum, Delta State, has been known to have strict policies, which makes many Nigerians to perceive the school as a citadel of learning meant only for smart and serious students. This notion came to be, given the fact that the PTI entrance examination is difficult for applicants and cannot be compared to that of other tertiary institutions in Nigeria. Mostly, those well-prepared are offered provisional admission into the institute. But, most time, applicants who are well-prepared for the entrance examination are scarcely admitted. So, it is seen as a privilege to be in the institute as a student. The most PTI entrance examination conducted in the recent times was that of the 2017 academic session in which the number of applicants eventually admitted was small out of large number of persons who wrote the examination all over Nigeria. It was never anticipated. And almost all the results of every first year examination in the school taken by students come with an “advice to withdraw” notice for some students in all the departments. To avoid this, students usually study hard and keep focus on their academic pursuits. No PTI student wants to be caught cheating. Once a student is caught cheating in an examination hall, with unassailable evidence, the institute summarily expel such student and this is a standard which keeps all students in every department on their toes, resulting in students’ total dependence on themselves to prevent being expelled. PTI students can stand with colleagues from other institutions and match the brain power of their peers from other schools. PTI alumni are distinguishable based on their contributions to skill development and prosperity of several organisations. All these good experiences earned the school a good reputation, locally and internationally. But, since the introduction of new policy, which makes it mandatory for the school to admit applicants through United Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), the impeccable status of the school is threatened. A policy that should have improved the institute’s rating has become a blow to its reputation. The number of students admitted for the 2017/2018 academic session was beyond the quota that institute can handle based on the facilities it currently has. This is due to the policy put in place which substituted the PTI entrance examination with UTME. This gives more people an opportunity to gain admission into the institute, but with the huge number of applicants admitted, it appeared as though admission was offered to every single person who applied. To me, the admission process seemed incredible, because we all know some unworthy applicants could have been admitted through this process. However, after their orientation, it is expected that these newly admitted students will buckle up and study hard to keep the admission, especially those in the National Diploma programmes. There is a feeling that the school would prune the number of admitted students through first year examination. But, are these set of fresh students serious with their study? It has been observed that some of them are still going to campus party and attending social events while their academic goals suffer. The recently released results of the first semester examination, which were exceedingly poor, is a pointer to the fact that majority of these freshers would be asked to withdraw at the end of the session. It comes as no shocker to some of us. What used to be one or two withdrawals from the departments may likely become mass withdrawal at the end of the session. Writing this does not give me joy, because I am currently a PTI student and I have imagined what it would feel like to be withdrawn from the institution after paying numerous amount of fees, especially in a country as ‘good’ as Nigeria. Well, I celebrate all fresh students who did well in their first semester examination and those who did not do too well, those who had poor results should know that there is always room for improvement. The choice is theirs to make.   