Current moves and actions of Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s aides and close associates give uncertain signals of their next political moves ahead 2019 elections, reports Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan AHEAD of the 2019 General Election in Ogun State, strong indications continue to emerge across the state for and against growing rumour that the state governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, and or his loyalists in the All Progressives Congress (APC) may dump the ruling party before the polls. While the embattled governor has left no one in doubt of his opposition to the choice of Prince Dapo Abiodun as the APC gubernatorial candidate in the state, uncertainties still cloud what his next political move could be. Many sources within and outside the party are warning that there could be a subtle move within the governor’s camp for his supporters across the state to dump the ruling party en-masse soon and contest the next general election on the platform of another party. The Nation gathered that the option of dumping the APC may have divided the governors’ camp into two. It was also gathered that Governor Amosun himself, barring a last minute change of strategy, may not join his supporters to defect. The plan is to have him remain in the APC so as to confirm his claims that he is a die-hard supporter of President Buhari. Some party sources however added that fear of being sanctioned by the ruling party may be the real reason for his decision to remain in the APC till the Election Day. “The signals emanating from the governor’s camp as at today are so confusing that it is impossible to categorically say this is what Amosun and his people are planning. But they have left no one in doubt that should Abiodun remain the candidate of the party, they will not work for his victory at the polls. Even Governor Amosun has said that severally. “To make matters worse, the list allegedly submitted to INEC by the APC has the names of many of Amosun’s men missing as candidates of the APC. This has further heightened the tension across the state. It has further enraged the governor’s supporters and those pushing for them to dump the APC are now having the upper hand. Less people are now in support of their remaining in the ruling party. “You can imagine the situation across Yewaland when news broke that Suraj Adekunbi, the Speaker of the State Assembly, has been dropped as the House of Representatives candidate for his constituency. Adekunbi is a leading politician in the district and his people love him greatly. He is also a strong Amosun ally. It is not clear where he currently stands in the debate for and against defection. But if truly his name is dropped, the party will have issues in Ogun West,” a party source told The Nation. We also gathered that at a meeting held at the governor’s private residence located at Ibara GRA, Abeokuta, the state capital, during the week, it was agreed that it is important for the group to take a decisive decision on what should be their next political move before it is too late. Our correspondent gathered that the unfavorable outcome of Amosun’s last visit to President Muhammadu Buhari formed the basis of the call. “They are politicians and they don’t want to be caught napping. But for the absence of the governor at the meeting, which had nearly all his top aides, within and outside government, in attendance, a decision on how they will respond to the choice of Dapo Abiodun as the APC gubernatorial candidate for the 2019 General Election in Ogun State, would have been taken by the Amosun political family at that meeting. “While it was clear that majority of the governor’s people are now in support of a mass movement out of the ruling party, the few opposed to the idea used the absence of Senator Amosun at the parley as a reason for the house to tarry a while in arriving at a conclusion. But everybody at the meeting seem to be united in their opposition to Abiodun’s candidature,” our source added. Leaders of the party from all local government areas of the state, who are loyal to the governor, top government functionaries in the state, as well as other leading chieftains of the governor’s political family, were at the meeting said to have been called to assess the current situation of things within the party as it relates to efforts to get the name of their preferred candidate, Adekunle Akinlade, on the list of APC governorship candidate. Old and new indications Giving fillip to the suspicion that Amosun’s men may be up to something unfavorable to the APC in Ogun State, among other indications, is the fact that the governor had, earlier in the month, threatened to pull out of the APC if the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party fails to uphold the candidacy of his anointed governorship candidate, Abdul-Kabir Adekunle Akinlade. The threat came few hours after Amosun met with Buhari and some other leaders of the ruling party in Abuja, to seek their intervention in the contentious gubernatorial primary in the state. Following his failed mission to Abuja, he returned home and issued the threat during a meeting with some party leaders and his loyalists across the 20 local government areas of the state held at his Ibara GRA, Abeokuta private home. According to sources who were present at the meeting, the governor, who briefed his loyalists on the outcome of his meeting with President Buhari as well as the national leadership of APC, informed them that the NWC even want him to share the national and state assemblies tickets with certain group of individuals, who, according to him, did not participate in both the governorship and legislative primaries. At the meeting, the Ogun governor, the source stated, made it clear that he could not work with Abiodun, who he said cannot win the election come 2019. Amosun, it was reported, vowed to leave the APC rather than waste his time working for a candidate like Abiodun in 2019. His position received the support of majority of his supporters at the meeting. News of Amosun’s threat to dump the APC caused a big stir within and outside the party until he made another visit to President Buhari and issued a rebuttal to reports that he is on his way out of the APC. But just as the stir he created was dying down following the rebuttal, Governor Amosun last week announced that he is under “enormous pressure” to defect from the ruling party over the outcome of the primary elections in the state. In spite of the governor’s efforts, Akinlade, his preferred choice as successor, did not make the list of candidates that the NWC certified for 2019. In a statement issued on his behalf by Dayo Adeneye, by the state Commissioner for Information, Amosun said, “It is true that enormous pressure was brought to bear on Governor Amosun to move to another party, because of the glaring injustice meted out to some party members at the recent primaries, but the governor maintained his stand that he would not decamp, especially on account of President Muhammadu Buhari, whose judgment and sense of justice, as the leader of the party, he cherishes and values immensely.” Adeneye, while justifying the pressure on his principal to quit APC, said those who know Amosun over the years, will confirm that his struggles are usually not about his own person but equity, justice and fairness for all, especially the downtrodden masses. He however added that because President Buhari represents this same spirit, Amosun will stand by him and with him in any party at all times and at all costs.” But all these were just as prominent supporters of the Governor who were aspirants at the primary election of the party across the state are now removing the APC logo from their campaign posters. According to reliable sources across the state, well known members of the Amosun political family are now printing new campaign posters without the APC logo in moves that are now being interpreted to suggest looming defections by observers. “Many of them are doing that now. One of such is Hon. Yinka Mafe, the Majority Leader of the State Assembly. The new set of online posters announcing his return to the race for the House of Representatives seat for Remo Federal Constituency is without the APC logo. He had, before now, dropped out of the race after losing the primary election to another aspirant. “Also, another House of Representatives candidate in Ado-Odo-Ota axis of the state and two House of Assembly aspirants in Ijebu-Ode area have similarly dumped the APC logo in their new posters. When asked the reasons for these unexpected moves, their aides and supporters claimed there is a huge possibility that the aspirants will take their political ambition to another political party soon. “From the look of things, APC has been hijacked by people who did not sow anything in the party before now. They want to reap but we will fight till the last drop of our blood. They have not only taken the governorship ticket, they have dropped the names of all our candidates for state and federal legislature. We cannot watch and see them do that to us, we are going to fight this till the end,” a counselor in Sagamu told The Nation on Thursday. Amosun de-marketing APC on purpose? But some observers of the politics of the state have accused Governor Amosun of intentionally de-marketing the ruling party ahead of the next general election. According to Chief Tele Akande, former State Secretary of the defunct Grassroots Democratic Movement (GDM), Senator Amosun and his supporters, either knowingly or unknowingly, have crossed the line of legitimate protests in their opposition to Abiodun’s candidature. “What they are now doing is nothing short of anti-party activities. They appear to have made up their minds to ensure that APC loses the next general election. They are de-marketing the ruling party on purpose. If not, how can women go topless in protest against their own party? The current deputy governor, Amosun’s deputy, rather than urge restraint, even offered to join the protesters! These people are working against the party,” he said. Akande, who is now a chieftain of the APC in Ogun West Senatorial District, called on the national leadership of the party and President Muhammadu Buhari to promptly rein-in the governor and his people into order if the party is to win the next elections in the state. According the politician, it is hypocritical of the governor to say he is in support of President Buhari while his people daily protest against the leadership of the ruling party. “I am surprised at what is going on. In totality, I agree with the APC spokesperson that our governor is a bad loser. He has not displayed any good sportsmanship since his preferred governorship candidate lost the APC primary election. Must he win at all times? He took the Ogun Central Senatorial ticket from a serving senator who has done only one term. What should that fellow do? Bring heaven down? Amosun must know that we don’t win all in life. “Across the state now, we see his people removing APC logo from their posters and talking about a new beginning. Many of his boys who lost the State Assembly and House of Representatives tickets are saying they are still in the race with or without APC ticket. One of them from Remo zone was on state radio recently where he said Governor Amosun’s popularity, and not APC as a party, is what is needed for victory in the 2019 General Elections. “The young man added that either on the platform of the APC or not, Amosun’s men will continue the good work they’ve been doing across the state since 2011. All these he was saying on a state owned radio station. These are gross anti party activities and it is enough for the governor and his co-travelers to be called to order. President Buhari must know that if things continue this way, he will lose in Ogun State come 2019,” Akande warned. But the man in the middle of the storm, Governor Amosun, insists he will neither leave the APC nor work against President Buhari’s 2019 presidential dream. Fielding questions from reporters after a closed door meeting with President Buhari, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Sunday, he dismissed as mischief the insinuation that he had defected from the ruling APC or planning to dump the party over political developments in the state. While insisting that he remains unsatisfied with the outcome of the primary election in his state, the governor said, “We will stock with (President Buhari) him. So, I want them to know that we are not going anywhere. “I’m going to be with the APC, we are in the APC and even after his second term, which by the grace of God and the support of all Nigerians, he will win,” Amosu said.