Another lawmaker from Kaduna State, Barrister Mohammed Musa Soba, representing Soba federal Constituency on Wednesday resigned his membership of the All Progressives Congress saying he can no longer remain in a party lacks the requisite discipline, cohesion and democratic characteristics to continue to retain his respect, confidence and loyalty. Soba, who is a former Chairman of the Action Congress of Nigeria in Kaduna state is quiting the party three days after Senator Shehu Sani resigned from the APC. Soba’s resignation letter dated October 24 2018 was addressed to the Chairman of the party in Sob ward of Soba federal Constituency in Kaduna and another to the Speaker of the House of Representatives. The letter to the ward Chairman, a copy of which was made available to The Nation reads: “I write to formally notify you that I have decided to resign my membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with effect from Wednesday 24th October, 2018. “My Idea of belonging to a political party in a democratic setting has always been to ensure that the right of the people to freedom of choice among other rights is jealously secured and guaranteed. Unfortunately, lack of respect for democratic ideals, contempt for party rules, impunity and egocentric divisions among party leaders and members have now become more pronounced than ever before. It is clear that the center can no longer hold. The APC as it is presently constituted lacks the requisite discipline, cohesion and democratic characteristics to continue to retain my respect, confidence and loyalty. “Consequently, by this letter, I am bringing to your notice that I have resigned my membership of the All Progressives Congress and have ceased to be a member of the APC henceforth. Accept my sympathy and best wishes as we prepare for the 2019 general elections.” In a separate letter to the Speaker, Soba basis “As are aware, the All Progressives Congress is yet to recover from the self-inflicted injury occasioned by double standard, indiscipline and sheer impunity in the conduct of its affairs. “It is regrettable that the APC which has enjoyed a lot of goodwill after its formation which culminated in our electoral victory in 2015 is now in disarray due to a complex mixture of ineptitude and inability to understand the dynamics of power in a democratic system of government. “Mr Speaker, I have been personally short changed by a system, i so much trusted and believed in. I have also been serially deceived and defrauded by a political party I helped to nurture and sustain. However, it is the sharp division within the APC members and the mutual antagonism between the membership and the leadership of the APC more than any other factor that propelled me to take my exit from the All Progressives Congress. “Accordingly, I wish to place it on record that from today 24th October, 2018, I cease to be a member of the All Progressives Congress having tendered my resignation letter to all the relevant party organs. Since the political horizon is wide enough to accommodate my ideology and aspirations, I shall announce the name of my new political party in the next few days. Please accept the assurances of my highest regards and best wishes as always.” Soba is one of the lawmakers who lost the APC ticket following the insistence of Gov. Nasir El-Rufai after staying back in the party and failing to defect along side others to the PDP.